---
date: 2022-01-18 22:06:02.887000+00:00
description: Thoughts after reading 'Money' by Bodo Schäfer
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#ImportanceOfMoney'
- '#SelfDevelopmentBook'
- '#GoalSetting'
- '#SpendingControl'
- '#FinancialFreedom'
templateKey: post
title: A Book Revisited After Five Years
---

Money is important in our lives. Money issues have a significant impact on life, so there's a need to change one's belief system about money. In a positive sense, we need to be thinking "money, money, money." We must set goals and advance prudently.

In the corner of the book from five years ago, I noted the target amount I should have by 2022. I also pledged to show a great attitude to those who inspire me. Looking back, it’s incredible to see myself approaching the target amount. However, I couldn’t predict the process at all. Contrary to my expectations, I didn’t save by significantly reducing expenses. My spending increased along with the rise in income. I would assess myself as average in terms of controlling expenses. However, I believe I did well in pursuing and achieving other growth-related goals.

Through five years, I realized that money is crucial for building confidence. I learned that having some financial stability in life helps me not to feel rushed and to view life more optimistically. Of course, I occasionally feel anxious when comparing myself to others. On the other hand, sometimes I wonder if being content with this life isn’t challenging enough.

In pursuing things I like, things I’m good at, and challenging tasks, solving the money issue is essential. It’s about moderation. There’s no need to adopt just one extreme stance. I hope to maintain the right principles and beliefs, and also have the flexibility to change or take risks when necessary. In a word, I want to achieve harmony. Within the big goal, I aim to have direction and find the optimal balance to achieve it.

I reread reflections on life attitudes. One should not settle within the manageable range and should not shift responsibility for uncontrollable external issues. Let's step out of the comfort zone and face new challenges. This process will bring hardship and growth. Wealth will follow as much as warm reception of this change.