---
title: "Reflecting on a Month #1"
description: OCT 2025
date: 2025-11-03
tags:
  - "#reflection"
links:
---

- I paid capital gains tax on the stocks exercised through stock options. I learned a lot and had many insights by handling it myself without hiring a tax accountant. [Link](https://jayonthegreen.github.io/post/스톡옵션-행사-매도-그리고-세금/) 
- October's playlist. Rapper Young B made a five-year re-contract with Swings, staying loyal. I listened to K-Seek, who had a beef with Swings. Travis Scott came to Korea, and I still keep listening to Han-ro's "Youth." I started exploring house music this year and often come back to it. I listened to a song by a DJ named DJ STEAW. [Link](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2Lpoig9VLay5ewvqnYNrRt?si=5a91fb6cf7104b67)
- To play tennis more seriously, I scheduled lessons early Saturday mornings. I participated in a tournament. The weather was nice. 
- I read Morgan Housel's "The Immutable Laws." [Link](https://jayonthegreen.github.io/post/Same-as-ever-불변의-법칙/)
- I started investing in crypto and U.S. stocks aiming for asset rebalancing in 2025.
	- I increased my holdings by purchasing U.S. stocks and crypto monthly. By chance, I made split purchases during a short-term drop in the first half of the year, and the subsequent bull market has yielded good returns.
	- Unlike when I was a fresh graduate, the amount I'm investing has grown, and the high volatility is surprising. In hindsight, it wasn't an intentional investment. Therefore, I am in a phase of thinking about how to improve my investment strategies for the future.
	- (Continuing) Five or ten years ago, I put in a lot of effort to find great individual companies. I was studying and searching from a bottom-up perspective. Recently, I’ve realized that I need to invest from a top-down approach. I should focus on where the large liquidity is moving and what future industries and desires people have, and then identify competitive companies from there.
	- At the very least, I wanted to know "how much" the S&P 500 goes up and down when it fluctuates. Let’s read the trending articles' titles from news channels like BBC and CNBC. There’s a need to look at indicators like Fear and Greed and VIX. I created a bot to summarize these aspects and send me the messages.
	- Starting next month, I plan to publicly write about my investment thoughts.