---
date: 2018-01-27 23:31:00+00:00
description: Reading Takashi Saito's 'Nietzsche Always by Your Side'
image: /img/book/nietzsche.jpg
keywords: Nietzsche Always by Your Side, Takashi Saito, Nietzsche, nietzsche
tags:
- '#Nietzsche'
- '#PassionForLife'
- '#SupermanSpirit'
- '#SelfLove'
- '#Solitude'
templateKey: post
title: Nietzsche Lightly
---
I felt a 'passion for life.' Nietzsche speaks of the 'superman spirit,' which affirms oneself even in tragic situations, never losing dreams and hope, and moving forward resolutely.

## Book Highlights

* Everyone should live an active life, continually adding new dreams to their future aspirations. Do not be satisfied with small achievements in the present or stop your steps toward the future by worrying about potential barriers whenever you encounter minor obstacles. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* Do not belittle yourself as a trivial person. Such an attitude tightly binds your actions and thoughts. Whatever you do, start by loving yourself. Even if you haven't achieved anything significant in life yet, always love and respect yourself as a noble person. Loving yourself ensures that you never commit evil deeds or actions that would attract criticism from others. Don't ever forget that such an attitude becomes the most powerful force in dreaming about the future. *Ecce Homo*
* I wish for you to never abandon hope and love, to never forsake the hero residing in your soul, and to continually gaze straight at the pinnacle of the life you wish to live, seeing it as sacred. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* Those who frequently use the word 'equality' either desire to drag others down to their level or wish to uplift themselves and others to a higher dimension. Thus, when someone cries out for equality, you must clearly ascertain which camp he belongs to. *Human, All Too Human*
* People earnestly seek someone to find their true selves, searching for friends who will engage with them and relying on others for vague reassurance. Why do they do this? Because they are lonely. Why are they lonely? Because they cannot properly love themselves. No matter how many friends you have with whom you can share moments of joy, the wounds from solitude are not easily healed. To truly love yourself, you must first devote yourself entirely to something. Walking toward higher places on your own legs comes with pain, but it's the kind of pain that strengthens the muscles of your heart. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* A person who seeks to draw the world's attention for something special is not truly original; they merely want to be noticed. A genuinely original person has the eye to recognize something that others have seen but not yet realized, even to the extent of lacking a proper name, and gives it a new name. A new world emerges when the world accepts this new name and recognizes its actual existence. *The Gay Science*
* Whether undertaking creative work or a mundane task, one must approach it with a light and cheerful disposition to ensure smooth progress. This way, you gain the freedom not to be obsessed with trivial limitations. Maintaining this mindset throughout life alone makes one capable of achieving much. *Human, All Too Human*
* Never ignore the hero that resides in your soul. Do not speak nostalgically about your body and aspirations for higher places as if they are a thing of the past. If, along the way, you abandon your dreams and ideals, you will end up mocking those who speak of them, and your heart will be disturbed with envy. In doing so, you'll also abandon the will to progress and the firm mind to overcome yourself. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* Although there are many books on how to live life, it's hard to find something that suits oneself. It's entirely reasonable that the ways of others do not fit your own. The problem lies in not recognizing the content of the 'why?' questions you pose. Why do you want to do something? Why do you want to become like that? Why do you want to take that path? It is because you lack clear evaluation criteria for these internal questions that you cannot find answers. Once you can provide answers to these 'why?' questions yourself, you'll know what to do and how to do it, and all that remains is to walk that path. *Twilight of the Idols*
* Do not despair if you lack natural talent. If you're not gifted, you can acquire it. *Dawn*
* Learn to laugh heartily beyond yourselves. Spread your chests high, higher! Never forget the sound of great laughter, just like a splendid dancer. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*