---
date: 2017-10-02
description: Reading Masuda Muneki's 'Intellectual Capital Theory'
image: /img/book/tsutaya.jpg
keywords: Intellectual Capital Theory, Masuda Muneki
tags:
- '#ValueProposition'
- '#ConsumerExperience'
- '#Innovation'
- '#UserCentered'
- '#TsutayaBookstore'
templateKey: post
title: Value Proposition
---

Coffee beans bought from the café sit in the kitchen. It's more than I can drink before it loses its flavor. Why did I buy coffee that I can't finish? Was it vanity, wanting to be the kind of person who buys coffee beans as they pass by? Or was it a dream of having the leisure to drink a cup of coffee at home?

It's not easy for producers to really consider what image, experience, or value consumers feel. Yet, it is undoubtedly important. The author transformed traditional bookstores into places for 'proposing a lifestyle.' The goal was not just to display and sell products but to propose values to the users. This is how Tsutaya Bookstore was created.

From a consumer's perspective, what am I consuming? Then, from a producer's perspective, what should I consider and implement? I've pondered this in a different light. Drifting from trying to do something by making a website, I ended up working as a developer. I've become more frequent in thinking about what to create, how to deliver it, and why it should be made.

‘We sell “innovation” not just products.’ ([A letter Slack's CEO sent to employees before the product launch](https://someto.wordpress.com/2015/04/02/slack-ceo%EA%B0%80-%EC%A0%9C%ED%92%88-%EC%B6%9C%EC%8B%9C%EC%A0%84-%EC%A7%81%EC%9B%90%EB%93%A4%EC%97%90%EA%B2%8C-%EB%B3%B4%EB%82%B8-%ED%8E%B8%EC%A7%80/)) Words like ‘user-centered’ and ‘value proposition’ resonate similarly. In the end, innovation seems to revisit the obvious idea of proposing values to gain enthusiastic choices from users.

## Summary
- The value of planning is determined by 'whether that plan can enhance customer value.'
- You need to have 'proposing ability.' Numerous platforms exist. However, these are merely 'places to choose,' and the actual choosing on the platform is done by the customer. Then, shouldn't the next thing platforms offer be the 'technology of choice'? Finding, selecting, and proposing products that can provide high value to each customer. This can create significant customer value in the third stage and provide resources that offer a competitive edge.
- (...) 'Capital' is, of course, important. 'Capital' is required to create sufficient products and platforms. However, if consumer society changes, the foundation of companies must also change. No matter how much money you have, it alone cannot create 'proposals.' Yes, what is needed in the future is 'intellectual capital.'
- Those engaged in the business world should have an outsider's consciousness. They need to have a perspective that sees their work from the standpoint of general customers who exist outside the industry's flow.