---
date: 2018-02-04
description: Reading Joseph McCormack's 'Brief: The Power of Concise Communication'
image: /img/book/simplicity.jpeg
keywords: brief, concise communication skills
tags:
- '#Simplicity'
- '#Communication'
- '#Interaction'
- '#SelfImprovement'
- '#ImprovementPlans'
templateKey: post
title: Simplicity
---

Communication is always difficult. Just when I feel like I’ve made progress, it feels like I'm back to square one. I remember a friend's remark: "Jaehyun has a lengthy dribble."

People communicate throughout their lives. This book systematically organizes communication from the perspective of simplicity. It explores why simplicity is important, what hinders it, and how we can achieve it. Most notably, it lists the reasons why simplicity is challenging. The seven reasons are as follows:

1. Cowardice: Failing to clearly define one's position, hiding behind meaningless words, and fearfully using technical jargon to stay in a vague grey area in case someone objects or disagrees.
2. Arrogance: Exhausting listeners by confidently explaining every detail, assuming one knows everything.
3. Carelessness: Not valuing others' time. While rushing others when they speak, acting as if time is frozen when it's one's own turn to speak.
4. Comfort: Abandoning simplicity out of habit. Being concise with important people but verbose with those they're familiar with.
5. Confusion: Speaking without organizing thoughts clearly; a blatant mistake. Thoughts that just came to mind are often incoherent, unclear, and unlikely to be remembered by the listener—unless they're refrained from being voiced.
6. Complexity: Knowing that those who can simplify complex concepts are highly regarded, yet firmly believing there are issues too intricate to be simplified.
7. Carelessness: Often tongue-tied and having disjointed thoughts, causing people to be disappointed as they fail to comprehend what you're saying.

The book provides straightforward principles like "Restrain the urge to speak whatever comes to mind," along with contextual explanations. It also offers training plans for improvement. Once again, I reflect on my verbosity. Let's practice even a single line from the book.