---
title: Thoughts While Walking
description: The Camino de Santiago
date: 2024-08-01
tags:
  - Santiago
  - Camino de Santiago
  - Travel
  - Organizing Thoughts
  - Identity
  - Self-Reflection
templateKey: post
---

## Excess of Identity

I am heading to Incheon Airport to embark on the Camino de Santiago.

I often feel a sense of emptiness. I ask myself, "What kind of person am I?" While it's an important question, this excess of identity eats away at my mind. I define, divide, and repeat an emptiness for an identity that isn't within me. I draw a vanity-ridden future self and disregard my current self.

There is nature, but also daily hardships waiting. On the Camino de Santiago, I hope to feel myself a bit more sensorially. Perhaps I can momentarily let go of my swollen identity outside of my daily life.

## When Worry Becomes a Burden

Before embarking on the Camino de Santiago, I watched reviews by various pilgrims on YouTube. My list of preparations kept growing. It seemed common to carry a 30-40L backpack on the pilgrimage. It felt like a lot. There were people who only carried a tote bag but brought an umbrella. I too did not want to walk in wet shoes. Starting with an umbrella, my load grew to include a lightweight down jacket, knee supports, and more.

I tried to aim for minimalism. I attempted to pack into a small 15L bag. It wasn't easy. The moment I packed a sleeping bag, I realized it was impossible. Yet, I didn't want to buy a 30-40L backpack as I thought it would be unnecessary after this trip. After much consideration, I bought a 22L Arc'teryx bag that I could use even after the trip. It was a bag I hesitated to buy due to the price but wanted nonetheless. I now had to pack everything into this newly purchased bag. In the process, I had to give up the lightweight down jacket. Rain gear seemed like a luxury. I pondered over whether body wash could be replaced with shampoo, and how many pairs of socks would be enough. Somehow, I managed to pack everything into the new bag.

On the Camino, I found it hard to spot people with less luggage than me. I felt like a minimalist. I was surprised to see other people's backpacks, wondering how much worry and thought brought them to carry that baggage. Having less wasn’t always better. There were inconveniences. There were days when I had to wear shorts without underwear, or just a windbreaker on a bare body, or walk in wet shoes. I would stop, wash clothes in a stream, and let them dry.

On the Camino, my worries directly translated into the weight of my backpack. Whenever it was difficult due to something I had or didn’t have, I thought about my belongings. What was fortunate not to bring, what should have been brought, and what should be discarded. Gradually, I let go of extreme worries. There were days I didn't even carry water because it was heavy. If I got thirsty, I could just walk to the next village. If it rained, it was fine to get wet. I could walk in wet clothes and shoes; they would dry. By shedding worries, the load was lighter, and I found it easier to walk.

I wonder if the worry of doing well actually becomes a burden.

## From P to J

I am heading to Spain to embark on the Camino de Santiago. I flew for 15 hours from Incheon to Madrid, Spain. I plan to start the pilgrimage from a small city called León, which is about a 3-hour train ride from Madrid. Walking from León to the Santiago Cathedral takes about 15 days.

I arrived at Madrid airport at 6 PM. Although my phone battery was low, I wasn’t too worried. I needed to head to the train station to catch the 7:30 PM train to León. I planned to use public transportation such as the subway or bus. I didn’t think it would be difficult to get from the airport to the train station. Isn’t it generally easy to get to the train station from the airport in any country? However, this thought was a major mistake.

The journey from the airport to the train station was arduous. The Spanish subway system was more complicated than I was used to. There were many transfers. Ticketing was especially challenging. At some point, I thought I might not make it on time. I got off the subway and took a bus. I quickly managed to catch a bus. While catching my breath inside the bus, I opened a map, only to realize I had taken the bus in the wrong direction. The road was congested, much like rush hour in Gangnam. There wasn’t much time left before 7:30 PM.

My phone was about to die due to low battery. I began capturing images to navigate to the train station. To conserve battery, I switched my phone to airplane mode. Somehow, I reached the train station. However, inside the station was very hectic. As I expected, my phone died. I desperately found a Burger King to charge my battery. I ordered a cola at Burger King. One big sip shocked my stomach, causing pain. This was because I hadn’t slept or eaten in a long time, and my stomach was startled.

After charging my battery at Burger King, I reached my high-speed train platform with 20 minutes to spare. However, another challenge awaited. It was difficult to purchase a ticket at the vending machine. I pointed my Google Translate camera at the Spanish on the machine, but it was still challenging. I went to the counter to buy a ticket. After taking a number, there were dozens of people ahead of me. It seemed like I'd have to stay a night in Madrid. I returned to the vending machine and tried all possibilities. After more than five attempts, I managed to buy a train ticket with ten minutes to spare. I dashed with the ticket in hand. While running, I realized there was a security check like at the airport. I had to stand in line. It was an uphill battle. I barely made it to the platform and boarded the high-speed train.

Before departure, I thought a trip without plans would be great. I imagined leisurely exploring through adventure. But reality was different. My MBTI is ENTP. As I live, I feel myself shifting from P to J, and this trip amplified that feeling. P requires a strong constitution, as I strongly realized.

This day's experience greatly influenced my journey on the Camino de Santiago. Whenever I traveled, I worried and prepared in advance for all potential occurrences. "What if I reach the destination on foot, and the pilgrim accommodations are fully booked?" I would wonder.

## Buen Camino

"Buen Camino" is a phrase in Spanish combining "buen" (good) and "camino" (path). It's a greeting for pilgrims on the Camino de Santiago. After walking for a few days, "Buen Camino" naturally slips out.

On the first day. With my obvious pilgrim attire, a passerby greeted me with "Buen Camino." I mumbled my response, "Bu... Buen Camino." Often, I saw people for the first time after 1-2 hours. "Buen Camino!" slipped out naturally. Walking under the hot afternoon sun, gasping for breath, mutual encouragement through greetings was quite powerful. The supportive greeting quickly became familiar.

Throughout the pilgrimage, I didn’t have any friends. By friends, I mean people I conversed with for more than 5 minutes. I think it's because I struggle with casual conversations. I didn't initiate greetings and walked with AirPods in, listening to hip-hop from the 2000s and ballads.

I embarked on this journey thinking of conversing with various people as part of the pilgrimage. Yet, I didn't engage in as many conversations with diverse individuals as I imagined before the trip. Even amidst social settings and an atmosphere of mutual greetings, I found myself not greeting others. Relationships need encounters, encounters need conversations, and conversations need casual greetings. I realized I wasn’t very good at initiating even that small start.

Now in my thirties, I’ve had various thoughts about being sociable. People from different countries who greeted warmly appeared admirable. How many conversations and interactions might they have had? In Korea, there were also some sociable individuals that came to mind. I belatedly realized the warmth of greetings.

"I guess I’m not good at greetings."

## Zumo de Naranja

"Zumo de naranja, please."

Walking all day drains my energy. To live, I drank orange juice like water. To order quickly and accurately, I memorized how to say orange juice in Spanish. "Zumo de naranja"—I shouted it about three times a day. I uttered it more frequently than "Gracias" or "Buen Camino." Orange juice, which I avoided worrying about sugar spikes, felt like an essential elixir on the pilgrimage. With each sip, I imagined the life of Spain’s intense sun spreading throughout my mouth.

Knowing a name fosters affection. Or perhaps only when there's affection does one desire to know the name. I passed through several villages a day on the pilgrimage. At some point, I couldn't remember their names and stopped trying to learn them. Once passed, a village merely remained a village. On the road, I’d frequently ask and answer, "Where are you from, where are you headed?" Yet, when unable to recall village names, words would fail me.

I listened to a lot of music while walking. I revisited songs I liked long ago. I especially listened to 'G.O.D.’s Road' countless times. However, a certain song came to mind, but I couldn’t remember its title, which drove me crazy. I remembered a vague rhythm and abstract shapes on the album cover. After searching extensively, I finally found it by browsing through streaming history. It was Roland Faunte. With a resolution to never forget again, I played the song.

Places, people, objects. Calling names makes their existence clearer. If I were more proficient in Spanish and English, would the world feel more colorful? Perhaps the world I experience is too narrow. I know too few names.

## People Who Know How to Be Happy

To be happy, just be happy.

A winery tour guide once posed a quiz. When asked how much they thought this farm’s most expensive wine cost, someone joked, "I’d know after tasting it." I also vividly remember a traditional fado performance seen in Porto. Looking around, I saw many genuinely happy people. On the pilgrimage, conversations naturally flowed with people. One day, while dining with about ten others in a hostel, a German caught my eye. He exchanged jokes warmly with people from various countries, dreaming of a cross-America trip, which was quite delightful. In Porto, I saw a traditional performance known as fado. There were many people visibly enjoying themselves wholeheartedly.

Those who recognize and savor happiness are the truly happy.

## Just Keep Walking

After completing the Camino de Santiago, I rested a few days in Porto. I mostly explored the city on foot. For tram rides of 2-3 stops, I chose to walk. If I were merely traveling in this city, I would have used public transport more frequently.

Walking made me see the city differently. There was no need to worry about taking the wrong public transport. Even if I took a wrong turn while walking, it became a tiny adventure. With the mindset that paths eventually connect, I walked. There was joy in discovering unexpected places. Above all, there was the leisure of knowing I could walk anywhere.

Thanks to the arduous journey of Santiago, my mind felt more resilient. The mentality of "I can just walk" changed my travel style and perspective on cities.

A day before returning to Korea, I almost missed the Duro River sunset while napping in the hostel. I hurriedly took a tram. A walk that took 30 minutes only took five minutes by tram. That moment made me realize the journey had ended. It was time to return to the familiar efficiency of everyday life, quickly transporting my weary body via tram.

The serene attitude of "I can just walk" will occasionally arise, even in Seoul, I believe.

## All or Nothing

*All or Nothing*—the idea that there’s no point unless it’s all.

I learned something while on the Camino de Santiago. Koreans are extremely reluctant to use buses or taxis on the pilgrimage. I understand. Koreans have a tendency towards extremes regarding things. There are quite a few who feel a great sense of regret even over Olympic silver and bronze medals.

My arrival was filled with regret. Instead of recalling the beautiful sceneries of the path, I thought first of the days I didn’t walk but took buses or taxis. "Would it have been more meaningful if I had walked more back then?" Although I had planned those transport moves in advance, there was still regret. It was impossible to walk the entire route during a 2-week vacation. So I had pre-decided to skip some sections by bus or taxi.

Impatience and unhappiness stem from such mechanical comparisons. Some celebrate reaching the end after walking 800 km from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port, France, but I wasn’t one of them, and that fact weighed on my mind. By comparing myself impulsively with others and failing to view even trivial things with affection, I’m left feeling as though something’s useless unless it’s complete. Can one live without comparisons?

I’m not sure. But I do want to return to Santiago. Next time, aiming to traverse the 800 km route.

## Awkward Seoul

From the moment I returned home, even the smell of my room felt unfamiliar. It seemed like a musty smell lingered, making me think I should clean more thoroughly. For the first time, I traveled abroad with just a 20L bag. Life seemed to require fewer things than expected. The Han River in Seoul was incredibly beautiful. Why hadn't I noticed the beauty in the everyday before? It felt like I was traveling through Seoul.

On the Camino de Santiago, I walked 10-15 km a day. It made me think I could travel places like the Camino or Porto even by car. I considered walking to Olympic Park, which was a 20-minute drive from home.

Returning from a trip always feels slightly awkward in everyday life. It makes me perceive many things anew.

## Why Walk?

Why walk? To organize my thoughts. We think less than we realize. Walking greatly aids in organizing thoughts.