---
date: 2023-07-02 10:05:35.570000+00:00
description: Reading Mark Goulston's 'Just Listen: Discover the Secret to Getting Through to Absolutely Anyone'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Listening'
- '#HumanBrain'
- '#Persuasion'
- '#ProblemSolving'
- '#9Rules'
templateKey: post
title: Listening
---
The human brain can be divided into three parts as follows:
1. Reptilian brain: immediate action and reaction. Snake's brain
2. Mammalian brain: emotions. Mouse's brain
3. Primate brain: logical and rational. Human brain.

To persuade someone, you must appeal to the primate brain (=human brain). To engage in a rational problem-solving conversation, you must first escape feelings of threat and pressure. Rational persuasion and understanding cannot be achieved when surprised and unpleasant.

9 Rules
1. Quickly calm the agitated beast inside you. You must be able to control yourself first.
2. The danger of thinking you know. If you are mistaken, you cannot properly understand the other person's thoughts. Empathy cannot be achieved either.
3. Identify the misaligned needs of the other person. Questions like "What is the reason for that?"
4. Don't try to attract attention; show attention. The more you naturally listen, the more thankful and empathetic the other person feels. Summarize their words or ask additional questions for deeper understanding.
5. Make them feel important.
6. Do not try to persuade someone floundering in a pit. Just help them vent their emotions and wait.
7. Present yourself as you want to be perceived. Do not get angry during a disagreement. During disputes, firmly state that the goal is to solve the problem, not to attack.
8. Deliberately show your vulnerabilities more clearly.
9. Do not try to change harmful people.