---
date: 2018-01-13
description: Reading Marx's "The Communist Manifesto"
image: /img/book/marx.jpg
keywords: The Communist Manifesto, Marx, Principles of Communism, Engels
tags:
- '#ClassStruggle'
- '#Bourgeois'
- '#Workers'
- '#IndustrialRevolution'
- '#SelfishMan'
templateKey: post
title: Class Struggle
---

> "The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles."

Who are the thinkers of the 21st century? Are they not entrepreneurs? In the sense that they engage in class struggle, articulate their thoughts, and take action.

## Book Summary

- 19 The bourgeoisie has played a most revolutionary role in history. Having gained dominance, the bourgeoisie has destroyed all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations. It has ruthlessly cut asunder the various feudal ties that bound man to his 'natural superiors,' leaving no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest and callous 'cash payment.' It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious fervor, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in the icy water of egotistical calculation. It has resolved personal worth into exchange value and has set up that single unconscionable freedom—Free Trade. 

- 42 On the other hand, the modern worker's position continues to deteriorate rather than improve alongside industrial progress, descending below the conditions necessary for the maintenance of life. The worker becomes a pauper, and social pauperism spreads faster than the growth of population and wealth. This clearly demonstrates that the bourgeoisie is no longer capable of maintaining itself as a ruling class in society and cannot enforce its class's interests as regulatory laws over the society.

- 170 Thus, philosophy emerged onto the world stage as power and thought became reality, an unprecedented occurrence in history.

- 172 The Industrial Revolution promised wealth. With a significant increase in productive capacity and mechanical inventions, it was expected that everyone would enjoy an abundant life, and the struggle for survival would be a thing of the past. However, the reality turned out to be the opposite, with slums and shantytowns forming in major cities, exposing a world far different from the promised one.

- 175 However, the selfish nature of man is deeply ingrained. Sustaining life presupposes selfish actions, and the biological evolution history is, in a sense, merely the development of selfish genes trying to survive within their environments. Therefore, human selfishness is as old as billions of years of evolutionary history. Thoroughly remodeling this through environmental changes or artificial education to create an entirely new human is practically impossible. (...) Ultimately, Marx might have misjudged humans, mistakenly believing he could remodel deeply rooted human selfishness. In this regard, capitalism is possibly the institution that most effectively systematizes human selfishness. The fact that capitalism, predicted to collapse from its contradictions, continues to sweep the globe may be because of this.