---
date: 2017-06-10
description: Reflections on Phil Knight's 'Shoe Dog'
image: /img/book/nike.jpg
keywords: Nike, Shoe Dog, entrepreneurship, Phil Knight
tags:
- '#PhilKnight'
- '#StoryOfNike'
- '#SuccessStory'
- '#SpiritOfAdventure'
- '#SneakerIndustry'
templateKey: post
title: Just Keep Going
---

Phil Knight gave up his dream of being a track athlete and went to business school. He thought that Japanese running shoes would dominate the global market, and this idea wouldn’t leave his mind. Later, he secured the American distribution rights for the Japanese sneaker brand 'Onitsuka' and started his business. He believed that if people went out and ran every day, the world would be a better place. He was convinced that the shoes he sold were necessary for running. His passion was on fire.

This book covers the journey from Nike’s founding in 1962 to its public offering in 1980. It’s a thick book. Filled with Phil Knight’s honest reflections, gratitude towards his team, and the meaningful journey of Nike, it leaves a lasting impression. The story is more than just a success tale; it’s a source of inspiration, fueling the spirit of adventure.

I felt a sense of adventure.

> Don’t mind if the world calls you crazy. Just don’t stop; keep going until you get there. Don’t even consider stopping, and don’t think deeply about where 'there' is. Whatever happens, don’t stop.

> This should never be just about business. It must never become merely business. If it becomes just business, that means business is a very bad thing.

> I kept thinking about the lines from <The Bucket List>: "You measure yourself by the people who measure themselves by you." (... abridged) I believe this statement is truly correct.

> "If I could go back in time and make different decisions, these choices might or might not help avoid the accusations of operating sweatshops. Regardless, these accusations undeniably brought about near-miraculous changes both inside and outside Nike. I am grateful for this.

> How dare I say I want to live my life all over again? Instead, I want to share my experiences and life journey with many young people. I wish to provide encouragement and comfort, and sometimes advice to help them overcome trials. This applies not only to young entrepreneurs but also to athletes, artists, and novelists.

> Some people say entrepreneurs should never give up. They are, in a word, con artists. Entrepreneurs must sometimes know when to quit. It's important to know when to give up and when to pursue something else. Quitting doesn't mean stopping. Entrepreneurs must never stop.

> Luck plays a big role in success. Yes, I openly acknowledge the power of luck. Athletes, poets, and entrepreneurs need luck. Hard work is important; it’s important to meet good people and form great teams, be smart, and decisive. But luck can determine the outcome. Some don’t call it luck, but Dao, Logos, Jnana, Dharma, spirit, or God. In other words, the harder you work, the better your Dao becomes. Since no one has precisely defined this Dao, I now strive to accumulate Dao in the long term. I want to tell people, have faith in yourself. Have faith in this faith. The belief must be defined by you, not someone else. Belief itself is defined in your heart.