---
date: 2022-06-06 11:43:11.381000+00:00
description: A reading of Lee Ki-moon's 『The Krafton Way』
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
  - "#Difficulties"
  - "#Growth"
  - "#Decision-making"
  - "#WillAndCapability"
  - "#CommunicationAndSelfishness"
templateKey: post
title: Hardship
---

I will endure as much hardship as needed. It's difficult. The process of creating PUBG includes tense conversations with the person in charge, Kim Chang-han, suspended projects, and employees leaving the company. Amidst the hardships, I could read the desire to ultimately move forward.

### Wrap-up

> If you don't feel lonely within an organization, it might mean that your role and responsibility are not that important. That's right. Decision-making is a fate that the last man must bear, and the process is lonely.

Decision-making is always difficult. Lonely and tough decision-making makes me grow.

> You can change willpower, but you can't change capability.

The opposite thought is also always valid. However, for years I have prioritized will over capability. The two can always change depending on the situation.

> Message #4 from Jang Byung-gyu
>
> About Communication
>
> Being a manager and living as a manager is difficult in many ways. You have to achieve the goal, strictly adhere to social norms, find good talent, and endure their growth process.
>
> The hardest part humanly is the constant conversation with selfish members. Especially, conversations with those who rationalize their selfishness are emotionally exhausting. Managers are human too.
>
> Everyone is selfish. Selfishness itself is not the problem. The real problem occurs when individual selfishness harms the 'public good' of the organization or others' selfishness. The harm of selfishness is more extensive than misconduct like embezzlement. 'Unintentional selfishness,' which is thinking that doing one's job well is enough without caring about the organization's bigger picture and working principle, feels too natural.
>
> People seem to be more skilled at self-rationalization than being rational. This applies not only to many members but to managers as well. Minor self-rationalization might be a good trait for enduring a tough routine. Thus, we must acknowledge that we are selfish, lazy, and self-rationalizing and manage the organization acknowledging this.
>
> So, what should we do? Whether it's a law, regulation, or procedure, if we can make it clear, it would be good to do so. Create procedures and systems that anyone can naturally abide by, regardless of their selfishness or skill in self-rationalization. It's a kind of rule of law. However, creating a cool and organic organization active with autonomy and responsibility cannot be achieved by merely improving procedures and systems. Law is not a panacea; it's rather a last resort.
>
> After many years of management, it seems that authentic 'communication' is the most effective means.
>
> You must constantly advocate for the 'public good' of the organization and not just mention it once but repeat it in various variations. Some very selfish members may not readily listen, so you have to create an environment where they cannot help but listen. Also, members should be encouraged to think for themselves about the 'public good' and decide where to apply selfishness and selflessness when working as a team with other members or managers.
>
> A manager's communication is ultimately a battle against selfishness. An endless and exceedingly tedious battle against selfishness. Human selfishness will never go away, and the more the company grows, the more it seems to prosper, selfishness will abound. This is because there will quickly be an increase in new members who think there is something to gain. Of course, such selfishness is undoubtedly a nutrient for growth.
>
> If a manager fails in communication or becomes lazy, acts of dividing you and me will start gradually. Internal politics of creating factions begins, and silos become full-fledged. The notion arises that managing an organization is difficult without authoritarianism, and rewards and authority become prioritized over roles and responsibilities. Non-smokers may try hard to fit into the smoking group.
>
> In the process of communication, the manager will also bear many human wounds. My selfishness feels natural, but others' selfishness does not feel natural to me. You might find yourself gradually losing affection for humans.
>
> But you should never lose affection for people. Since management fundamentally deals with issues related to people, losing affection for people essentially ends admirable management.

Rationalizing selfishness is a constant difficulty, but it is more important to make sharp judgments in moderation. To make judgments and choices, mental stamina is necessary. And underneath it all lies affection for people.

> "Learning is necessary for conviction."

Conviction doesn't come naturally. Small challenges and learning are needed. Of course, learning and showing results can be different.

> Kim Kang-seok soon conducted a meeting with new recruits. It was an orientation prepared with the title 'Starting the Journey Together.' Kim Kang-seok emphasized, "To live as talent, one must adhere to the basics of a knowledge worker."
>
> To become an irreplaceable talent rather than a cog in the machine, voluntary growth is essential. This requires time management and continuous learning. Talent acquires professional knowledge on the field and works efficiently. They make decisions through conversations and collaboration with other members, ultimately contributing to the organization's performance and goals.
>
> Kim Kang-seok advised, "Above all, it's inappropriate for the company to become merely a club." Attitude might be more important than capability for collaborating as a team, challenging goals, and achieving results.
>
> Ultimately, the start and completion rest on oneself. 'No Silver Bullet.' If you are truly talented, you should ponder, read books, and hone yourself through conversations with colleagues.

Growth is essential. Refining oneself.

> The Conditions of a Leader
>
> Kim Chang-han continued with the subtitle 'Leadership and Team Management for Creative Work,' writing about the proper leadership he envisions.
>
> A leader’s duty is not to make the right decisions but to enable people to do the right things.
>
> Many leaders are mistaken. They believe that their role is to make the right decisions. But decisions are just the beginning. A leader needs to ensure that people do the right things. There are many ways to motivate people to work, and dictation is the worst method, especially for creative tasks, as it doesn't yield good results. The best way is to make people work with enthusiasm and dedication. Even if a leader thinks they made a good decision, it holds no value unless it is executed and results are realized.
>
> It is better to carry out work through the best effort rather than striving for the best, using that as a foundation to produce better results in the next stage.
>
> We live in an unpredictable future, and the world is changing faster and faster. Therefore, there can be no decision with 100 percent certainty.
>
> We must continually adjust our actions to fit reality. While planning is essential, the ability to swiftly alter plans is equally important.
>
> It is crucial to recognize that we are engaging in commercial business activities, not creating art. An artist can devote their time and life until the work meets their satisfaction or becomes the best. They may create just one work in their lifetime. That kind of operation is impossible for commercial projects. There are budgets and development deadlines, and sometimes you must take responsibility for the lives of those participating. Creative products can't be produced just by spending money.
>
> "Strive for the best but choose the best available." This is what I, as a PD, am doing. The attitude opposite to this is "If it’s not the best, discard it." While this could be a viable approach for some projects, at least for the current BRO project, nothing can be produced with this approach.
>
> By continuously choosing the best possible option, the product will gradually evolve to a higher level, which was initially difficult to anticipate. If a leader makes a team discard the results just because they don't like them, it severely undermines the motivation of those who put their best effort into the work. Team members will lose the will to produce better results next time. The team will gradually lag behind.
>
> It's better to encourage people to excel at what they do well rather than pointing out mistakes. Everyone has strengths and weaknesses. The intention of good words and texts is significantly influenced by how the listener receives them rather than the speaker's intention; therefore, those with authority should ponder longer on how the content will be delivered and received rather than just the content itself.
>
> Words don't derive their meaning from the content but from how the recipient interprets them. Leaders with authority should spend more time finding ways to communicate the meaning effectively rather than forming the content of their speech. Since listeners vary, tailored methods are needed to convey the meaning properly, requiring substantial effort.
>
> Self-reflection or self-objectification is crucial for a leader.
>
> You don't automatically become a leader by declaring it yourself or holding a title. Followers determine who the leader is. A leader exists because of followers, and the collective ability of the followers ultimately constitutes the leader's ability. The most critical element in a leader's process of building trust and uniting followers is self-reflection or self-objectification.
>
> Self-objectification is the act of honestly observing oneself. If a leader views themselves as A, but others see them as B, there is a disparity in perception. This makes it challenging to build trust.
>
> For instance, if a leader believes that they are good at drawing, but no artist acknowledges this, the artists will outwardly pretend to listen to the leader's feedback, but internally they will never trust it. On the other hand, if the leader acknowledges they are not good at drawing, they will give feedback from the standpoint of someone who isn’t proficient at drawing. This feedback will be accepted by the artists with its own significance.
>
> What kind of leader should one be?
>
> In Asia, there are typically three kinds of leaders: those with courage, wisdom, and virtue.
>
> A brave leader possesses the highest level of ability. In game development terms, they are the top implementers while also being directors. They continue doing critical and challenging programming or directly create key art as AD. They can lead effectively by showing results through their own hands. A wise leader is an extremely intelligent strategist, capable of understanding everyone’s work, conversations, and content, and engaging in discussions. Their intelligence earns them followers, and people trust them based on strategic decisions and successful results. A virtuous leader is someone with good character, attracting people because of their good personality and high morals. Even though they might lack practical skills, they lead skilled people. They select appropriate individuals, delegate tasks entirely, and achieve results.

I always thought that decision-making was critical, yet there were times when it felt emotionally off-putting. It was like a wonderful idea but seemed empty, an abstract feeling, but organizing it as "enabling people to do the right thing beyond making the right decision" in the above leadership description clarified it. The right decision isn’t everything. Facilitating people to do the right things and repeatedly achieving results to grow leadership—this collective energy seems more important to ensure the team does the right things.