---
date: 2021-04-02 09:03:28.774000+00:00
description: Reading Arthur Schopenhauer's 'The Wisdom of Life'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#PainAndBoredom'
- '#HumanAnguish'
- '#FindingHappiness'
- '#MaintainingHealth'
- '#SelfReflection'
templateKey: post
title: Pain and Boredom
---

Humans wander between pain and boredom. When in pain, they seek comfort and feel boredom there, and conversely, when bored, they seek pain to alleviate the boredom.

"Happiness is not easily attainable. It is very difficult to find within oneself, and impossible to find elsewhere."

"Humans only achieve success by striking with the sword they have drawn, yet die holding a weapon."

## Summary

* Humans are pitiful comedians with anguish and pain. Regardless of status or wealth, everyone shares the same experiences of suffering and distress.
* Rather than striving for wealth, it is wiser to maintain health and enhance abilities.
* In all aspects, people savor themselves. The expression "enjoy one's self" is very apt. Enjoying Paris is expressed as "he enjoys himself at Paris."
* An optimistic temperament and cheerfulness are valuable in themselves. Such a spirit inhabiting a healthy body is the most important asset for our happiness.
* Dedicate time to health management, such as exercising intensively for two hours each day outdoors and frequently taking cold baths.
* A gloomy person may become angry over one failure despite having nine successes. In contrast, a cheerful person knows how to take solace in a single success even in opposite circumstances, keeping their spirits high.
* People with exceptional mental faculties value free leisure time more than anything at any era.
* Efforts to avoid boredom from leisure, such as dancing, theater, socializing, or card games, are futile due to a lack of intellectual desire.
* A poor person who suddenly acquires wealth may regard it as something for indulgence. Conversely, a wealthy person considers wealth as essential as air, maintaining it accordingly.
* Impressions from others and compliments are, in fact, of little significance.
* Those who seek happiness only in how they appear to others have very few resources to rely upon.
* The foundation of happiness undoubtedly lies in basic animal nature. Health is crucial, and the means to sustain life are important. Maintaining a life free from mental exhaustion is essential.
* Just as one doesn't feel their body weight, individuals fail to notice their own shortcomings while only recognizing others’ flaws or vices.
* In matters of happiness, after wisdom, courage is of great importance.