---
date: 2021-08-16 14:38:27.220000+00:00
description: Reading Yoo Hyun-joon's "The Future of Space"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#MeaningofSpace'
- '#YooHyunjoon'
- '#RealEstateIssues'
- '#SpaceandPeople'
- '#ChangingPlaces'
templateKey: post
title: The Meaning of Space
---

I’ve read Professor Yoo Hyun-joon’s book and watched his lectures several times. He discusses how spaces should be and points out the current real estate issues in South Korea. He speaks with a realistic voice.

Space has a tremendous impact on people beyond what we might think. It’s palpable from the perspectives of humanity, society, and even my personal daily life. Skyscrapers attract people. Where people gather, cities form. On a larger scale, the function of spaces in forming groups, like schools and workplaces, is colossal. On a smaller scale, how you organize a space can naturally attract people or create an environment of surveillance.

The lighting, structure, size, and location of my home, and even the neighborhood environment, significantly affect my day. The sense of relief when I return to my home after a tiring day sustains my life. I recently moved. I'm very satisfied with the cleanliness of the neighborhood, the proximity to commercial areas, and nearby parks like the Han River and Yangjaecheon.

> "There are only three ways to change a person: changing how they use their time, changing where they live, or meeting new people."  

I used to think that changing where I live wasn’t a big deal. I thought it didn’t make much difference whether I lived in Gangnam or Gangbuk unless it was a move from Korea to the United States. That was a big misconception. Even a slight change in residence brings a significant difference.

Reflections:
* Even with the advent of video calls, humans won't abandon the act of holding hands on a date because humans will choose to have both online and offline opportunities rather than pick one.
* This is possibly due to the sapiens' instinct of feeling secure when surrounded by others. This tendency pushes us to understand the latest trends, follow fashion, and feel the need to watch movies that exceed ten million views to avoid feeling detached from the mainstream.
* Without a corporation philosophy, a large workforce needs to unite under a single mindset, often relying on uniforms, company logo badges, and working in the same space and time.
* The difficulty in communication due to masks differs between the East and the West. In the East, we express a smiling face with '^^' to indicate smiling eyes. In contrast, the West uses ':)' to show a smiling mouth. Easterners express emotions with their eyes, while Westerners use their mouths. It is said that the muscles around the eyes cannot be manipulated consciously. While one can consciously make a smiling expression with the mouth, it is challenging to deceive with fake expressions through the eyes, which is why the smiles of nervous participants in beauty pageants sometimes seem awkward because they smile only with their mouths, not their eyes.
* Humans consume a significant amount of energy using the temporal lobe when recognizing faces, indicating its crucial role in human relationships. Recently, masked servers in restaurants seem less noticeable compared to before. With masks, the face disappears, making them feel like part of the background rather than individuals.
* The space on Earth is finite. Occupying a space means securing it amidst the dimensions of time and space. While we cannot master time, owning space gives us control. Life is inherently unstable and volatile. People in power are building systems aimed at reducing these instability factors.
* Prolonged absence of interaction leads to the disintegration of communities, similar to why long-distance relationships often fail. Acts of physically gathering in offline spaces create power structures, which in turn form communities.
* These examples show that enjoying something means not just the content itself but the awareness of sharing it with others. Music at a concert can be listened to on a CD, and a favorite singer's face is clearer on a big TV screen. However, the experience of being with like-minded people at the same event or person, focusing and cheering together, offers an irreplaceable experience beyond the internet.
* Watching recorded videos instead of live broadcasts doesn’t align with the same timeframe, weakening the authority and influence of teachers. The authority differs depending on whether online lectures can be attended as needed or must be watched live. Therefore, modern conferences often maintain their event authority by offering live online streaming of lectures.
* Anyone who has worn a uniform in school or boot camp understands this feeling. Amid such conformity, I either became part of the group or rebelled and faced social exclusion. Homo sapiens, with their evolutionary instinct to survive as part of a group, find it challenging to break away. Thus, they conform to the organization.
* Choi Jae-chun, a former director of the National Institute of Ecology, explains the 2020 COVID-19 crisis as a phenomenon driven by global warming. According to him, different species have different strategies to counter viruses. In people, the immune system aggressively responds to kill off invading viruses. Conversely, bats, which contact various species and often live in large groups, adopt a strategy of coexisting with viruses, harboring numerous types without falling ill. Human interactions with bats lead to exposure to viruses. Fortunately, humans predominantly reside in distinct seasonal temperate zones while bats inhabit warmer regions, meaning their habitats rarely overlap. However, as global warming progresses, bats from tropical zones migrate to warmer temperate areas (human habitats), increasing contact and thereby transmitting viruses like the coronavirus into the human realm, Choi argues. If global warming persists, the chance of new pandemics increases, as warming could also expose ancient viruses or bacteria as the Siberian permafrost melts.
* It is more advantageous to have both online and offline opportunities rather than just online relationships. Would anyone really give up holding hands on a date just because video calls are available?