---
date: 2016-04-15
description: Reflecting on Jeon Jung-hwan's 『The Old Toolbox』
image: /img/adler.jpg
keywords: The Old Toolbox, Jeon Jung-hwan
tags:
- '#Science'
- '#EvolutionaryPsychology'
- '#KarlPopper'
- '#Falsifiability'
- '#Rationalism'
templateKey: post
title: Evolutionary Psychology as Science
---

Karl Popper argued that science must have "falsifiability." To be "scientific," a statement must be able to be falsified. For example, the statement "All objects expand when heated" is falsifiable. On the other hand, the statement "Adventurous speculation brings good fortune" is not falsifiable.

Popper considered Adler's psychology and Freud's psychoanalysis as unscientific. So how would Popper have evaluated evolutionary psychology? He would likely have recognized it as a science and viewed it as a branch of psychology.

Popper's rationalism starts from the notion that reason can make mistakes. The attitude of vigorously pursuing truth while also harboring doubt is appealing. We almost always have to carry contradictory attitudes together.

Evolutionary psychology likens the human mind to an old toolbox filled with various tools. These tools are not meant to resolve profound issues like the meaning of life or the existence of God. They are intended for survival, such as seeking shelter from storms and escaping predators. Evolutionary psychology strives to be based on falsifiable, objective judgments rather than empirical claims.

The author approaches even topics like homosexuality and religion from a thoroughly evolutionary psychological perspective. The author's assertion that "any hypothesis, including the possibility that homosexuality is a contagious disease, must be thoroughly tested without prejudice" is somewhat striking and intense.

I could feel the charisma of a scholar in his consistent approach to value judgments from an evolutionary psychological perspective. This charisma shines through even more in the reflective humility present throughout his book, acknowledging the possibility of errors.