---
date: 2017-07-16
description: After reading "How Google Works" by Eric Schmidt, Jonathan Rosenberg, and Alan Eagle
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Google, Work, How Google Works, Eric Schmidt
tags:
- '#GoogleCulture'
- '#Efficiency'
- '#Teamwork'
- '#WorkLife'
- '#InnovativeCorporateCulture'
templateKey: post
title: What is Google's Culture?
---

Google is famous. And so is Google's "culture." I was curious about why it is considered innovative and what it entails. My current company is also contemplating the structure of work, and as my first company, it piqued my interest. That's why I found the book even more fascinating.

Companies may have their own reasons for being efficient or inefficient. I want to avoid having a mechanical mindset of "this is how we work." I fear becoming someone who cannot reflect on their surroundings or themselves. My attitude or approach towards work will change in the future. I hope to be someone who continuously thinks intentionally, stays humble, and is open to change. It would be beneficial to make time to intentionally think about "work" moving forward.

## Highlights

---

## Culture, Believe in Your Motto

### Bezos's Two Pizza Rule

- Organizations should be composed of small teams. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos created the "two pizza team" rule, meaning that a department should be small enough so two pizzas can feed the entire team. Smaller teams accomplish more than larger ones and worry less about politics or recognition.

### Organize the Company Around the Most Influential People

- At least 50% of the people gathered should be experts in the company's products and services and be responsible for product development.

### Good Overworking

- Work-life balance might be another criterion of "evolved" management, but it could insult professional and creative employees. There is an issue with the term itself. For many people, work is not separate but a significant part of life. The best culture may occasionally have too much work in a good sense, even if it leads to overworking employees. There is an abundance of interesting tasks to tackle both at home and work. Therefore, if you are a manager, your job is to energize and enrich work.

- Suppose there is a critical employee who believes that taking 1-2 weeks off would paralyze work. Recognizing this is a serious issue. There shouldn't be or cannot be essential employees. You might encounter employees who intentionally create such situations to flaunt their confidence or wrongly believe their role is indispensable for job security. Giving such people a vacation can show that replacements can easily handle their work in their absence. Once they return, they'll be reinvigorated and motivated, and their substitute would have gained more confidence.

### Fun Over Big Entertainment

- Excellent startups or projects, much like great jobs, must be fun. If you're exhausted with no joy from work, something is wrong. Part of the fun might derive from the excitement over potential future success, but often it comes from enjoying working alongside joking coworkers.

## Strategy, Your Plan is Wrong

### Maximize Growth

- Previous claims from dot-com companies about not knowing how to make money were incorrect then and remain so. Google's founders knew they could make money in the advertising business but initially did not know precisely how, so they waited for the platform to grow rapidly. But they had a clear understanding of general revenue models.

### Specialize

- In the late 1990s, Google concentrated on expanding the search platform with a singular goal, measuring search functionality on five key axes: speed (faster is always better than slower), ease of use (can grandparents use Google?), accuracy (how relevant is it to the user's question?), comprehensiveness (does it feel like searching the entire internet?), and freshness (how recent is the result?).

### Don't Be Obsessed with Competition

- The fundamental mindset of the top-level often becomes a disease. This attitude of focusing too much on competition leads to an endless cycle of mediocrity. Corporate leaders spend considerable time observing and imitating competitors. Then they cautiously take on risks while trying something new but mostly result in ineffective, incremental changes because focusing on competitors is easy.

- To quote Larry, "We do recognize some level of competition, but I mainly feel that my job is to make sure employees don't focus on competition. Generally, people tend to engage with existing work, but our job is to think about necessary but unthought-of things. If competitors know about it, they would naturally keep it secret from us or anyone else."

- This doesn't mean ignoring competition. Competition can enhance you and keep you on your toes. No matter how often we vow to stay vigilant, humans easily fall into complacency.

## Talent, Hiring is Most Important

### The Helix Effect

- Excellent talent not only performs well but also attracts other top talents.

### Hire Learning Animals

- Favoring expertise over intellectual ability is entirely wrong, especially in the high-tech sector.

- Experts might feel threatened by new types of solutions that demand new knowledge, as they might have inherent biases from their problem-solving approaches. Diversely knowledgeable individuals lack such biases and freely explore a broad range of solutions before gravitating towards the best one.

- Finding learning animals can be a difficult task, but asking applicants to reflect on past mistakes is Jonathan's technique.

- The core isn't about whether the person has foresight but rather about how they develop their thinking and what they learn from their mistakes. Not many can answer this well, but if someone does, it's a sure sign they are a learning animal.

### Interviewing is the Most Important Skill

- Excellent interviews require distinct preparation, applicable whether you're an executive or a newcomer. To become a skilled interviewer, you need to understand the role well, review résumés thoroughly, and, most importantly, prepare questions that are questions.

- Is the person intriguing? Then, utilize your researched knowledge to delve deeper into their plans during the interview. Difficult questions should be asked to challenge the candidate. What are the flaws in their plan? Or why might their plan succeed? You should discover whether the applicant can break through or merely follow passively.

- Your aim isn't just to have polite conversations with candidates but to uncover the limits of their potential. However, the interview shouldn't become overly stressful. The best interviews feel like intellectual discussions among friends.

- When inquiring about candidates' backgrounds, instead of letting them recount their experiences, they should express the insights they gained from them. Avoid repeating résumé content and instead encourage them to showcase their thoughts.

### Assessment Feedback

- From an interviewer’s perspective, remember that the purpose of the interview is to gain assessment feedback. You must secure a definite opinion. At Google, candidate ratings are divided from 1 to 4. An average score around 3 indicates "I support offering this person a job, but others' agreement would be appreciated." (...) For instance, in product management, a score of 4.0 means "This person is perfectly suited for the role. Before deciding not to hire them, listen to my opinion first."

### Send Away Chocolates, Keep Raisins

- The best way to retain employees with expertise and creativity is by not making them too comfortable and constantly encouraging them to find interesting work.

### Firing

- The best way not to fire underperforming employees is to avoid hiring them in the first place.

## Decision, The True Meaning of Consensus

- It wasn't simply about reaching the best conclusion for the company but orchestrating the decision-making process to derive the best conclusion in harmony. Other crises will come, and important decisions will continue. This problem's resolution will serve as an example for employees engaged in company management, skilled and creative executives. Above all, difficulties arise when they disagree with the outcome.

### Decide with Data

- Naturally, those closest to the subject understand it best, but often, in business management, this is not the case.

### Be Wary of Yes-Men

- Consensus is not about simply finding people to agree. It’s about discovering and gathering the best ideas for the company.

- A correct decision is the best decision, and it's not necessarily the least common denominator everyone agrees upon. Not every consensus offers a solution. Coach John Wooden once stated, "Focus on finding the best way, not your way."

### Know When to Ring the Bell

- Conflict-based approaches work only when there's a timeline and an authority figure managing reversals. Sometimes, there can be too much data, or the issue seems endless. In such cases, extensive arguments might lead to mediocre compromises after much time, incurring significant opportunity costs. It might be better when a skilled and creative person makes a decisive call after several delays and debates. There are times when additional analysis won't yield better conclusions. That's when a decision-maker's role is most crucial.

### Reduce Decisions

- Codifying the process of who does what in a three-person leadership system significantly helped.

- If you're a CEO, generally reduce decisions drastically. Product launches, acquisitions, and public policy matters are areas where CEOs should exercise influence or deep involvement. However, there are plenty of issues that others in the company can handle. Intervene only when a serious misjudgment is suspected.

### Both Sides Can Be Right

- People in technology and science often make the mistake of thinking they can change minds by having wise, well-thought-out debates based on data and detailed analysis. This isn't true. To change minds, you must appeal to emotions, not win debates.

### Every Meeting Needs an Owner

- Meetings between two equal groups often don't yield good results as they tend to make adequate compromises instead of reaching the best conclusions. There should always be someone even slightly more authoritative as a decision-maker.

## Communication, Be an Excellent Router

### Repeating Doesn’t Spoil Prayer

- It’s essential to make repetitive communication a habit. As Eric often says, "Repeating doesn't spoil the prayer," akin to reciting Hail Marys to seek forgiveness for sins.

- Is this communication effective? To communicate abundantly, there must be something new involved.

## Innovation, Create a Spontaneous Structure

### What is Innovation?

- In our view, innovation requires both "production" and "execution" of novel and useful ideas. (...) Therefore, something is innovative when it's "new, surprising, and incredibly useful."

### Know Your Background

- To qualify for innovation, you need the appropriate background that matches the innovation. Such backgrounds are often found in fast-growing, competitive markets. Don't isolate yourself looking for empty spaces. For innovative approaches, it’s more advantageous to participate in large or potentially growing spaces.

- If you want to foster an innovative environment, find a large market with significant growth potential. Remember that Google entered the search engine business late.

### Focus on the User

- Expressed in complete sentences, this means "If you focus on the user, everything else will follow." This indicates that we always pursue the right actions for users and trust that Google's skilled and creative workforce will find ways to make money from it. This requires confidence and time while maintaining this principle, but it’s worth it.

### 70/20/10

- Henry Ford set automobile prices low, believing that "we make and sell more discoveries out of necessity than from leisurely research methods."

- The most valuable aspect of the 20 percent time isn’t the products or unique features that come out but the lessons learned when people engage in something new. The 20 percent projects lead most people to train and develop skills outside their regular tasks with colleagues they don't often work with. These projects, albeit rarely leading to new and surprising innovation, yield outstanding results in expertise and creativity.

### Launch, Then Improve

- Steve Jobs once told the Macintosh team, "Real artists ship." New ideas cannot be perfect from the start.

- However, the launch-improve approach doesn't always work. Some products gain traction and momentum post-launch, while others stagnate. The issue is that a significant amount of resources and attachment are invested in a product by the time it hits the market, which hinders making the right decisions. The cold truth to follow is to ignore sunk costs. Consequently, in a launch-improve model, leadership's role is to support successful products and abandon unsuccessful ones, investing more resources into products gaining momentum and avoiding supporting those that don't.

### Fail Well

- To innovate, one must learn how to fail well. Learn from mistakes. Any failed project should offer insights into the next efforts with respect to technology, users, and markets.

- Management's role isn't to minimize risks or prevent failures but to create a flexible environment that can accommodate the associated risks or inevitable mistakes graciously.