---
date: 2016-10-23
description: Reflecting on J.D. Salinger's 'The Catcher in the Rye'
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: The Catcher in the Rye,Salinger
tags:
- '#WrinkleFree'
- '#TheCatcherInTheRye'
- '#HoldenCaulfield'
- '#CaulfieldSyndrome'
- '#HumanContradiction'
templateKey: post
title: Wrinkle Free
---

> "You don't trust people, analyze them, and think too much."

I often hear things like this. I admit it. In my desire to be flawless, I responded cynically. That cynicism lashed back at myself. I entangled myself. Eventually, I fell into a contradiction and was trapped in my own castle. Yet, I still don't stop casting cynicism. To someone like me, *The Catcher in the Rye* left a deep impression.

The protagonist, Holden Caulfield, dislikes everything except pure children. The book chronicles Holden's three-day journey after being expelled from school. By frequently pointing out the phonies around him, Holden despises dishonesty and pretentiousness. Caulfield's rebellious nature swept across America, leading to what was called the "Caulfield Syndrome." Many artists have sung praises of *The Catcher in the Rye*.

Holden expresses revulsion to the point of irritating the reader. He uses this disgust to separate himself from the world, establishing a standard. However, he encounters contradictions within the standards he set for himself.

I resonated with the relentless contemplation of human contradictions. Everyone becomes a Caulfield. As I read on, I found myself at a loss for words. I wanted to stop thinking altogether. Watching Holden's story of intense hatred and wandering that eventually leads to a turning point made me realize that I should embrace, rather than ignore, uncomfortable feelings.