---
date: 2024-01-01 13:52:31.894000+00:00
description: Reading Max Weber's 'The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#MaxWeber'
- '#ProtestantEthic'
- '#Capitalism'
- '#Marxism'
- '#Protestantism'
templateKey: post
title: Diligence and Capitalism
---

If the left has Marx's 'Communist Manifesto,' then the right has Max Weber's 'The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.' Marxism on the left argues that the development of production technology drives capitalism, asserting that material determines spirit. In contrast, Max Weber on the right argued that the spiritual Protestant religious ethic was the driving force behind the development of capitalism, refuting Marx's materialistic claims. It was a major intellectual battle of the century: what should precede in capitalism, spirit or material?

Max Weber posited that capitalism developed more robustly in areas where the Protestant spirit was prominent. Capitalism flourished in Britain, the Netherlands, and the United States, where Protestantism spread actively. Conversely, in Spain and Italy, where Catholicism prevailed, capitalism did not develop as much. Max Weber sought to explore whether there was a causal relationship in this peculiarity, whether the Protestant spirit created capitalism.

Protestantism stood against a corrupt and secular Catholicism. Thus, Protestants required a strict stance on divine matters. Consider Calvinism as an example. In Calvinism, there is no "forgiveness." One judged as having sinned was destined to sin, according to divine will. Forgiveness was not an option, so people dared not commit a single wrongdoing. This belief is known as Calvinism's predestination. Such strictness required high morality from everyone. Considering the widespread human corruption like indulgences at the time, the success of Calvinism's predestination is unsurprising.

In the book, 'capital' refers to money, goods, labor, etc., invested for the purpose of production. The opposite concept is 'wealth,' which refers to activities wasted in non-productive endeavors, like keeping money in a safe or underground. A capitalist is someone who reinvests profits to increase production. Conversely, a medieval noble who spends income on banquets or wars is not a 'capitalist.' Capitalism is the concept of using capital rationally to maximize production.

A unique aspect of this capitalism is that it requires the suppression of human desires to pursue capital. Not investing accumulated wealth in production and instead consuming it non-productively or pursuing profits goes against the direction of capitalism. Building a factory with earned money for production is desirable, but buying a Porsche to drive around is inappropriate. Restraint was a virtue in capitalism aimed at further increasing capital, which aligned well with the Protestant ethic. Naturally, prioritizing the desire for capital over human desires is essential for sustaining 'capital'ism.

The Protestant ethic imposed diligence on individuals, ultimately providing the labor force needed for the development of capitalism and supporting its ideology. Whether this came by necessity or chance is unknown. It could be the dialectical synthesis of history—a necessary force to overthrow the existing Catholic order for limited resources and class control.