---
date: 2023-12-24 05:21:35.239000+00:00
description: Reading John Sellars' 'The Fourfold Remedy of Epicurus'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#calmness'
- '#Epicurus'
- '#mentalpleasure'
- '#ataraxia'
- '#simpleslife'
templateKey: post
title: A State Without Worry
---

The book defines pleasure as a 'state without worry.' While familiar with concepts like dopamine and physical pain (like cold showers), I hadn’t thought much about the mental aspect.

> Epicurus divided pleasure into 'dynamic' pleasure and 'static' pleasure. Dynamic pleasure is derived from actions or processes, while static pleasure is felt in certain states or conditions, essentially the difference between 'doing' and 'being.' He focused on the pleasure of being rather than actions. For instance, we eat to reach a state where we no longer feel hunger. Our goal is not the pleasure from the act of eating but to achieve a state free from hunger. Overcoming the pain of hunger is what matters.
>
> Epicurus showed more interest in mental pleasure than physical pleasure and, in some ways, was more concerned with avoiding pain than pursuing pleasure itself. He believed that the ideal life was not about satisfying physical desires but about striving to be free from all mental anguish. He called this state ataraxia, which directly translates to 'absence of worry' but is best understood as 'tranquility.'
>
> Epicurus advocated for a simple life based on simple pleasures, aiming to achieve mental tranquility here and now as the ultimate goal.