---
date: 2017-10-02
description: After reading "Intellectual Capital" by Masuda Muneki
image: /img/book/tsutaya.jpg
keywords: Intellectual Capital, Masuda Muneki
tags:
  - "#ValueProposition"
  - "#CustomerExperience"
  - "#Innovation"
  - "#UserCentered"
  - "#TsutayaBookstore"
templateKey: post
title: Value Over Functionality
---

Coffee beans bought from the cafe are sitting in the kitchen. There are so many that their aroma might disappear before I finish them. Why did I buy coffee that I can't even drink all of? Is it because I wanted to become someone who buys coffee beans? Did I envision having the leisure to enjoy a cup of coffee at home?

It's not easy for producers to truly consider the image, experience, and value that consumers will feel. Masuda Muneki innovated bookstores as places that 'propose lifestyles.' He wanted to convey something beyond merely displaying and selling products. This led to the creation of Tsutaya Bookstore.

What do I, as a consumer, consume? What concerns do I have from a producer's standpoint? Thoughts about what to make, how to deliver it, and why have become more frequent.

‘We sell "innovation," not products.’ ([A letter from the Slack CEO to employees before the product launch](https://someto.wordpress.com/2015/04/02/slack-ceo%EA%B0%80-%EC%A0%9C%ED%92%88-%EC%B6%9C%EC%8B%9C%EC%A0%84-%EC%A7%81%EC%9B%90%EB%93%A4%EC%97%90%EA%B2%8C-%EB%B3%B4%EB%82%B8-%ED%8E%B8%EC%A7%80/)). Words like 'user-centered' and 'value proposition' resonate similarly. In the end, innovation is about proposing value and receiving enthusiastic choices from users.

## Summary
- The value of planning depends on whether 'the planning can enhance customer value.'
- There must be a 'proposing ability.' Numerous platforms exist. However, they are merely 'places to choose.' The actual chooser on the platform is the customer. Then, isn't the next thing the platform should offer 'choosing skills'? A person who can find, choose, and propose products that provide high value to each customer. In the third stage, this can result in significant customer value and provide a competitive edge.
- (...) 'Capital' is obviously important because 'capital' is required to create sufficient products and platforms. However, the foundation of a company must change as consumer society evolves. No matter how much money there is, it cannot create 'proposals' on its own. Yes, what is needed in the future is 'intellectual capital.'
- People in the business world should have an outsider's perspective. They should have the viewpoint of a general customer who is outside the flow of the industry to see the work they are doing.