---
date: '2018-11-18'
description: Reading Seth Godin's 『Tribe Leadership』
image: /img/book/tribe.jpg
keywords: tribe,tribe leadership,tribe leadership,Dave Logan,Halee Fischer-Wright
tags:
- '#CorporateCulture'
- '#Leadership'
- '#TribalCulture'
- '#CoreValues'
- '#CultureStages'
templateKey: post
title: Is Corporate Culture a Luxury?
---

> The great achievements that change history begin with a tribal culture that shares a noble cause and core values.

This book explains tribe culture and leadership not through abstract beliefs, attitudes, desires, or ideas, but through the **language** and **relationships** that people use.

I had always thought vaguely about culture. Whenever practitioners speak of 'leadership,' it often comes with dissatisfaction. It's not easy to have deep discussions about culture or leadership. I considered leadership as the competencies of an individual leader and culture as a 'result' that members organically build over time. I even thought that corporate culture was a luxury only successful companies could afford. For someone like me, this book offered a **concrete framework for thinking** about culture and leadership.

The author classifies culture into five stages. The representative language used at each stage is as follows:
- Stage 1: “Life sucks.”
- Stage 2: “My life sucks.”
- Stage 3: “I'm great. (But you're not)”
- Stage 4: “We're great. (But you're not)”
- Stage 5: “Life is great.”

The author states that individuals and groups are not fixed at a specific stage but can move between stages depending on situations and relationships. I was particularly impressed by the assertion that understanding and responding to the language of each stage is the **essence of leadership**.

The discussion about Stage 3 in the book was especially intriguing. It is said that 49% of American workers belong to this Stage 3 tribal culture. They are captivated by the illusion of 'big wins' and believe that success is being recognized as the smartest by outperforming others. However, we should not overlook the fact that **society has shaped them this way,** rather than their excessive self-consciousness. I, too, am not entirely free from Stage 3.

To move from Stage 3 to Stage 4, the author cites the 'establishment of core values' as the most crucial factor. Whenever uncertain about what to choose, the question “Does this choice align with the values we pursue?” acts as a compass for decision-making. People felt satisfied with decisions made through these questions, and this experience contributed again to building the community's trust. Of course, a single value cannot solve all decision-making challenges. What matters is the **continuous process of contemplating and developing values**.

Often, a company's core values end up tucked away in a corner of its website or serve merely as decorative items like fancy interior pieces. To prevent this from happening, values need to be alive as a standard in life and work.