---
date: 2020-03-24 14:43:03.836000+00:00
description: Reading Ahn Hee-jin's 『Zhuangzi Humanities』
image: /img/relax.jpg
tags:
- '#morningRead'
- '#Laozi'
- '#self'
- '#focusOnChange'
- '#equanimity'
templateKey: post
title: Fabricated Things
---

I read it for 10 minutes every morning on my way to work. Isn't a company a place where desires and the self collide? Every morning, I read a bit of this book to mentally arm myself.

> That which is not inner but fabricated is not true beauty. True beauty does not change. Laozi made an interesting analogy. If you tiptoe, you cannot stand for long. If you take wide steps, you cannot walk far. 『Laozi · Chapter 24』

I felt uncomfortable whenever I saw someone walking on tiptoes. While it could simply be a habit without reason, I've seen many people doing so to appear taller. Similarly, the excessive use of English or exaggerated accents are typical examples. There are times when I feel unnatural towards others and myself.

Such judgments sometimes prevent me from focusing on myself. Strength and generosity are needed to accept people and situations as they are without losing my center.

> “If the water of Canglang is clear, I will wash the ribbon of my hat / If the water of Canglang is muddy, I will wash my feet!”

> Excessive admiration for <justice> can easily go against the natural way. Even though it's better to let such good values remain natural, by emphasizing them too much, it adds hardship to those who pursue them and makes those who cannot follow feel guilty.

Let's not obsess over concepts, justification, or justice excessively. Extreme justice that causes discord is tiring. Zhuangzi warned against excessive ideas and learned knowledge that ends up as empty shells. It seems like Zhuangzi made everything meaningless, but he also gives warm words that urge us not to give up seeking value. Life is always about 'nevertheless.' Focus on change without judging.

## Summary

* Without attachments, consciousness disappears, and when consciousness disappears, harmony and balance are restored. When you ride a bicycle for a long time, you begin to feel as though you and the bicycle are one. Eventually, it becomes one with your spirit. When a beginner paints, they are aware of the brush, but once they reach a high level, they forget the brush and even themselves.
* “Equanimity is the way. ‘Equanimity’ means doing nothing forcefully and not pursuing anything. Not distinguishing between right and wrong, not arguing over possessions or abandonment, nor distinguishing between long and short, vulgar and sacred. …… That attitude of naturally dealing with things in life is the way.” 『Jingde Record of the Transmission of the Lamp』
* Even with knowledge of brightness, dwell in darkness. Even with the knowledge of a mature life, live like a child.
* A short person tiptoeing to appear taller won't walk far. Striding to walk faster won't take you many steps.
* Restore the original state; naturalness is beauty. Beauty is not the kind that dazzles the eyes or delights the ears. True beauty is as it is. It blooms from within. That which is not inner but fabricated is not true beauty. True beauty does not change. Laozi made an interesting analogy. If you tiptoe, you cannot stand for long. If you take wide steps, you cannot walk far. 『Laozi · Chapter 24』
* “Now I understand. The reason I haven’t achieved a state of mindlessness is that my mind was filled with self-consciousness. Now, even ‘I’ is gone from my mind. Can I now say it’s truly emptiness?” To this, Confucius replies. “Now it's done.” 『Zhuangzi · Human World』
* If you shoot arrows for pottery as a prize, you hit well. If it's a belt decoration as a prize, you don't hit well. But for gold as a prize, you hardly hit. Though skill remains the same, the mind agitates over external objects. Preoccupied with external things, it ruins the inner spirit.
* Generally, people try to create something to their standards when they see an object and consider it useless if it doesn't fit.
* Zhuangzi says to accept people or things as they are. He does not mean to pursue only natural appearances. Natural qualities should also be left as they are. Trying to correct or make them right is like twisting a cow’s horn perceived as 'wrong' for symmetry.
* Obsessing over distinctions like justice and injustice, right and wrong, leads to biases.
* Excessive love for ‘Love’ disrupts natural love, and an excessive admiration for ‘Justice’ tends to go against natural order. Even though it's better to let these good values remain as they are, by overemphasizing them, it burdens those who pursue them and turns those who cannot follow into sinners.
* What society requires is learned, but if what's learned isn't digested, it leaves only a shell with the essence gone. Zhuangzi rejected this shell devoid of substance.
* The act of ‘doing my best’ can result in causing more pain to innocent people. Desires are wrapped in justifications, and justifications are always embellished with knowledge.
* Poet Tao Yuanming warned against clinging too much to textual analysis, saying, "I love reading but don't cling to excessive interpretations, as long as my heart finds something to awaken, I even forget eating."
* Many opposing concepts we consider different or contrary are actually within one flow, as per Laozi and Zhuangzi's consistent view.
* Therefore, don’t become a petty person, but follow your natural disposition. Don’t become a gentleman, but follow the principles of nature. Don’t try to align your actions consistently or adhere strictly to justice as it could make you lose your true self. 『Zhuangzi · Bandit Dao』
* A wise person sees through superficial criteria and perceives the essence. Victory and defeat, profit and loss, integrity and corruption, good and evil aren’t discernible through apparent phenomena alone. Zhuangzi says those thirsty for justice eventually abandon it like fleeing from something hot. 『Zhuangzi · Critique of Opinions』
* True completion in a large vessel means it never truly reaches completion. When something is said to be completed, it is no longer a large vessel. Saying something ‘is done’ inherently implies it is ‘not yet done’ compared to something else. What we label as big, small, or anything else is relative, and true essence exceeds human limits of thought and expression. Zhuangzi logically explained this.
* Instead of judging with ‘concepts’ formed from external influence, Zhuangzi advises judging with the mind's inherent nature. Concepts aren’t absolute.
* True purity isn't clinging to the idea of purity. There should be no concept of purity in the mind. Not rejecting impurities but going beyond purity and impurity; thus, one isn't tainted by purity or impurity. It’s not about maintaining purity but being inherently pure. Life’s myriad values truly shine when coming from genuine inner truth. Therefore, Zhuangzi urges us to escape from dualistic perspectives like clarity and obscurity, good and bad, justice and injustice. Such dualistic views are often just ‘perceived’ concepts.
* From Zhuangzi's perspective, ‘justification’ is the shell of essence and merely a warning flag for practice, not practice itself.
* Various pains in life stab a person's heart like arrows. Many struggle to extract them, but truthfully, once an arrow of suffering is embedded, there's no way to remove it. If there's a remedy, it’s living with it as part of the body, eventually becoming a part of you over time.
* Nonetheless, even in our seemingly trivial existence, we carry the duty to embody the true value of our meaningful presence.