---
date: 2023-01-29 12:23:49.190000+00:00
description: Reflections on reading ‘The Rich Salaried Workers’ by Neonawee
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#RealEstateInvestment'
- '#TheRichSalariedWorkersTV'
- '#Neonawee'
- '#CostOfLiving'
- '#NeedForInvestment'
templateKey: post
title: The Life I Want Is Expensive
---

I wasn't interested in real estate. I thought my path was to succeed quickly. However, after starting my professional life and moving houses for a few years, I experienced the rising costs of jeonse (a Korean housing lease system). I couldn't remain indifferent to the fluctuating real estate prices. One day, I wanted to form my own judgment as the media kept debating whether real estate was cheap or expensive. I learned about the Price-to-Income Ratio (PIR) and jeonse rate. Through word of mouth, I came across a YouTuber named 'Neonawee.'

Many people follow Neonawee. The [Rich Salaried Workers TV YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@weolbu_official) that he runs has 900,000 subscribers. People crazily inspect real estate over the weekends and save money for investments. Seeing these people and the prevailing trends sparked my curiosity, which led me to read this book.

The book introduces reasons for needing to become wealthy. Let's calculate the money needed for life. It turned out more money was required than I had thought. More than anything, I realized that the life I want is expensive. Not just expensive, but calculating the exact amount made it hit home even more. I faced the realistic reasons for needing to save money. The book then covers why Neonawee focused on real estate rather than stocks, his principles, experiences, and more.

Real estate investment is not my top priority. I don't think it's necessary to visit properties every weekend and study during the weekdays like a real estate investor. However, what he wanted to convey, "the reasons for becoming wealthy, the effort," and "how to view real estate" are important. After all, I need a home, money is essential for me, and my choices involve investment.