---
date: 2018-07-22
description: Mun Seong-gil, 『Doing Netflix』
image: /img/book/netflix-logo.png
keywords: Netflix, Doing Netflix, netflix, Book Journalism, Mun Seong-gil
tags:
- '#Netflix'
- '#CustomerCentric'
- '#DataAnalysis'
- '#ContentSupply'
- '#NetflixQuantumTheory'
templateKey: post
title: Netflix?
---

Many companies look to Netflix as a model for corporate culture, primarily focusing on customer and data-centric approaches. This book provides more detailed insights into the workings of Netflix.

As Netflix's presence in the market grew, traditional content providers began to hike supply costs to counter it. Netflix faced a crisis regarding the cost of content acquisition. In response, Netflix analyzed data to identify alternative content that could deliver similar results at existing costs, resolving the crisis. They found a way to maintain competitiveness amid the challenges.

Data should not be confined strictly to digital thinking. Netflix employees reportedly create 36 pages of metadata for each movie. Internally, this is referred to as 'Netflix Quantum Theory.' They manually categorize film information to the smallest discernible level, showcasing collaboration between analog and digital.

Netflix's examples clearly demonstrate what customer-centricity means. During its DVD rental days, it boldly shifted from a late fee model to a subscription model, eliminating late fees altogether. Unlike many services, they do not hide the subscription cancellation button. When people began sharing one account, they instead supported the creation of multiple profiles to enhance personalized experiences.

Previously, I admired Netflix simply because others did. Through this short book, I've come to understand Netflix a little better.