---
date: 2025-04-01 07:27:00+00:00
description: 'Han Seung-tae, After reading “Extinction of a Certain Verb”'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Labor'
- '#Soul'
- '#Kim Hoon'
- '#LaborField'
- '#InhumaneLabor'
templateKey: post
title: Labor and Soul
---

> “To be happy, not working in a call center is essential.”

Receiving customer calls, carrying goods, making food, cleaning. All these tasks we commonly refer to as labor contain vivid reality. However, observing this vivid labor site from the outside rather than within is somehow ironic.

"It's only when you have no idea how someone makes a living that they are a complete person."

This is a famous saying by novelist Kim Hoon. It is common for certain labor to dominate a person's life. Labor goes beyond merely being a mental or physical burden, forcing the individual to mimic their own self and soul. After all, a profession can inherently be a performance of a certain identity.

There are manuals at labor sites. But ultimately, it is people who perform the work. There, experience, power struggles, joys, and sorrows exist. In logistics centers, people create territories hoping that the intensity of labor will improve for more comfortable work. To meet the daily quota, they give their all in the beginning and then adjust their pace towards the end. Loading and unloading liquid becomes a murderous experience.

While there might be small rewards due to its simplicity and clarity, on the other hand, it's about enduring unhappy times and pouring one's body and mind into it. And if someday the functions that grind down humans are replaced by other beings, what meaning will labor hold then?