---
date: 2021-08-08 23:19:14.176000+00:00
description: Reflections on reading Jeff Cox's 'The Sales Genius Who Couldn't Sell'.
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Sales'
- '#SalesStrategy'
- '#Marketing'
- '#CustomerTargeting'
- '#ProductValue'
templateKey: post
title: Everyone Becomes a Salesperson
---

Even a great product needs proper sales. This book shares an anecdote about the person who invented the wheel and their attempts to sell it.

Although I'm not in sales, I live a life of selling. Broadly speaking, I'm selling my ideas. At work, I combine situations, people, problems, and solutions into proposals. I can view it through the lens of "Can I sell this?" I, too, am a salesperson.

The idea of not giving customers time to think is intriguing. After all, even if given more time, customers often look for reasons not to proceed. That time is an opportunity cost for everyone involved. Therefore, effort should be made to minimize time for such deliberations.

You shouldn't explain your product to someone who has no interest. You need to ask someone likely interested in the product. To sell the wheel, you have to find someone moving heavy objects quickly and easily. Grabbing a passing child to ask won't likely lead to a sale or even good advice. It's inefficient to try to sell to someone who won't be a customer. Therefore, who you approach as potential customers is very important.

A salesperson's eloquence isn't the main thing. While it helps, it's not the essence. Sell the value the other person will obtain, not just the function. For someone quarrying stone, the wheel isn't just about convenience; it's something that straightens their bent back and helps realize their dreams. However, even such a sales method doesn't work after a market-creating period. Sales strategies must change according to the market/company situation.

Reading this book, I felt that marketing and sales aren't far from my life.

In Summary:

* Nowadays, quality, technology, or a small team aren't competitive advantages. They're merely the minimum qualification to enter the market. Without even these, you'll disappear into history.
* "I was confident that these wheels would be utilized in people's lives and that we'd sell many. However, strangely, we couldn't sell a single wheel." (...) "We should have first considered the fact that people had lived for millions of years without wheels."
* Six questions:

  1. Who are our customers? ⇒ People who want to move heavy, large loads quickly, easily, and cheaply, and all merchants selling existing methods necessary for moving heavy loads.
  2. Who are our competitors? ⇒ (For example, elephant merchants, camel merchants, and sled manufacturers).
  3. Why would customers want what we're selling? ⇒ To achieve the tremendous performance guaranteed by new technology and to have the chance to do things previously impossible.
  4. Why do customers buy from us? ⇒ Because we are the sole supplier of wheels.
  5. Why do customers buy from competitors? ⇒ Because they offer proven methods. Customers are not yet aware of our technology.
  6. What services can a salesperson offer to close a sale?

* The individual with the financial capability to purchase what he's selling. Someone who has the authority to make decisions. Someone with a strong desire to stand out from others. Someone who thinks sufficiently about the future. A person who doesn't expect much from Cassius before or after purchasing the product because they are resource-rich.
* There are two main reasons Cassius did not give customers time. First, experience shows that giving customers too much time to reconsider actually leads them to find reasons not to buy. Second, Cassius himself doesn't have time. If he clings to one customer until they decide to buy, he risks losing other customers.