---
date: 2021-02-13 08:55:16.469000+00:00
description: Reading Eckhart Tolle's 'A New Earth'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#EgoDominance'
- '#StayCalm'
- '#BuddhistPhilosophy'
- '#SelfIdentity'
- '#SelfImprovement'
templateKey: post
title: Stay Calm
---

The book says that the ego is an illusion, and we should not be dominated by it. Rather than focusing on 'what I am', we should concentrate on 'being'. Do not identify yourself with thoughts and emotions. It’s possible to remain calm.

## Notes

- Thoughts can at best point to the truth, but they are never the truth itself. That is why Buddhism says, “The finger pointing to the moon is not the moon.”
- Claiming you are right places you in an imagined moral superiority over people and situations you judge to be wrong or problematic. What the ego craves is this sense of superiority, through which it strengthens itself.
- “When you criticize or blame others, it makes you feel bigger and more superior.”
- At one end of this unconscious pattern of behavior dominated by the ego is the compulsive habit of finding fault in others and complaining.
- Most people are so completely identified with the voice in their head—the incessant stream of compulsive thinking and the emotions that accompany it—that we could say they are possessed by their mind. As long as you are unaware of this, you will believe you are the thinker. This is the egoic mind.
- The ultimate truth of your existence is not ‘I am this’ or ‘I am that,’ but simply ‘I am.’
- “Life is not as serious as my mind makes it out to be.”
- There is good news. An illusion ceases to exist once you know it’s an illusion.
- “Stop defining yourself and others. You won't die; instead, you'll experience being alive.”
- Once you identify with the role of the victim in a story about yourself, you don't want it to end. That is why, as any psychotherapist knows, egos don’t want their ‘problems’ to end, as they are part of the ego’s identity. If no one listens to ‘my sad story,’ I tell it over and over in my head and feel sorry for myself, thus establishing an identity of someone being unfairly treated by life, others, fate, or God. That identity clearly defines my self-image and makes me someone. To the ego, that is the most important thing.
- The main cause of unhappiness is never the situation itself but your thoughts about it. You must become aware of the thoughts you are having. Separate thoughts from the situation. Situations are always neutral, merely what they are. On one side is the situation or the fact, on the other side, my thoughts about it.
- Noticing that you are harboring a negative state of mind is not failure—it is success. As long as you don't realize this, you are identified with your internal state, which is the ego. Awareness releases you from identification with thoughts, emotions, and automatic reactions.