---
date: 2018-08-19
description: Thoughts after reading "Next Money" by Goran and Lee Yong-jae
image: /img/book/blockchain.jpg
keywords: Next Money, Goran, Lee Yong-jae, Blockchain, Cryptocurrency
tags:
- '#Cryptocurrency'
- '#Blockchain'
- '#Credit'
- '#Trust'
- '#EconomicValue'
templateKey: post
title: It's Quite Difficult to Replace
---

I still think that cryptocurrencies have no tangible form compared to fiat money. The author asserts that fiat money, like virtual currencies, also lacks substance. However, I find it uncomfortable to categorize both cryptocurrencies and fiat money under the same 'nonexistent' umbrella. I believe that money is formed through a long accumulation of socio-cultural trust. Cryptocurrencies lack this accumulation of socio-cultural recognition. Looking toward the future, cryptocurrencies might be the right choice. But as the book mentions, progressing too quickly may not be different from being wrong in the present.

I acknowledge the social and economic value of trust and credit that blockchain advocates. However, from an economic perspective, I think the current systems are adequately functional. What is adequately functional is, surprisingly, difficult to replace.

New technologies often highlight their advantages over their shortcomings, and when applied in reality, unforeseen issues arise. I don't want to undermine blockchain because of this. The saying "Don't let the fear of maggots stop you from making paste" rings true. I believe in the progress of technology and history. Nevertheless, there is always a need to be critical to avoid losing objectivity. Ethereum's hacking incident, leading to the split between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic, was an interesting read about the growing pains of the cryptocurrency ecosystem.

If we question whether blockchain is truly necessary, the answer might be no. It would be beneficial if more applications that necessarily require blockchain emerge and become widely used. It's still hard to relate to the problem consciousness and solutions it offers. Regardless of my personal agreement with these issues, the anticipation surrounding blockchain and the phenomena expressed through cryptocurrencies have already produced significant outcomes. I even believe that, in extreme cases, results create causes. Individuals are powerless in the face of monetary expansion and contraction. I hope cryptocurrencies can solve these problems and add value to the world.