---
date: 2018-09-16
description: After reading "Inflation" by Hanno Beck, Urlich Bacher, and Marco Hermann
image: /img/book/inflation.jpeg
keywords: inflation,Hanno Beck,Ulrich Bacher,Marco Hermann,money
tags:
- '#ValueOfMoney'
- '#QuantitativeEasing'
- '#Inflation'
- '#Economics'
- '#MonetarySystem'
templateKey: post
title: The Value of Money Declines
---

I learned about quantitative easing during my college years. At the time, Bernanke's reduction of quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve was a major issue. "Quantitative easing" is the act of a central bank purchasing government bonds to increase the circulation of money in the market. It was a big shock to me because I thought money was only printed as much as it wore out and created tangible value. I was surprised that the value of money is relative. Knowing that the actual purchasing power of money decreases as money continues to expand, I felt as if my wallet was being robbed.

This book covers the history of inflation that began with the birth of money. The history of inflation discussed in the book is summarized in the following ten propositions.

1. Money itself is trust. If trust in money collapses, currency collapses. The primary duty of politics is to prevent abuse that erodes trust in money.

2. In the early stages of a currency collapse, there is often excessive debt by the state or ruler. When excessive debt arises, states or rulers try to evade their obligations by using inflation. This temptation always exists. This is why it is predicted that inflation can never disappear. As long as money and leaders exist, inflation cannot be eradicated.

3. Inflation can be likened to running on a giant razor blade. Typically, inflation only stimulates the economy in the short term, resulting in what is known as hyperinflation. Conversely, if inflation is too low, deflation can occur, leading to economic devastation. This is why the monetary system should not be used as a test subject.

4. Since the 20th century, severe inflation has been hyperinflation, which typically occurred during political upheavals, making it a form of political inflation.

5. Economists have divided opinions on inflation. Within economic schools of thought, there is the Keynesian school supporting active state intervention and the classical school adhering to free market principles. Keynesians argue that inflation can unleash productive capacity, while the classical school believes money has no influence on real economic activities.

6. There is a certain correlation between the money supply and inflation rate. To date, this correlation could only be observed in the long term and was not just reflected in prices alone, but perhaps elsewhere too.

7. Since 2000, cycles of financial crises and massive monetary injections have repeatedly occurred. The rapid increase in money supply was a measure to overcome crises but also served as a signal for the next crisis.

8. Inflation is not reflected in prices alone. Asset and securities prices, and even financial assets, experience rising asset inflation simultaneously.

9. The greatest victims of inflation are ultimately the underprivileged and the poor. Inflation has the same effect as an unfair and unjust tax.

10. Historically, states have encouraged inflation to eliminate debt. Therefore, predictions of the end of inflation lack validity.

The above ten propositions are well explained in detail in the book. There are various opinions on the background and effects of inflation policy. Many economic crises have resulted from repeated inflation. I hope to make the best choices amidst the cycles of economic crises and booms.