---
date: 2025-01-04 16:57:00+00:00
description: Reflections on reading Park Jung-soo's 'Good Mood'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#CareAttitude'
- '#HumanRelations'
- '#GoodMood'
- '#Growth'
- '#Sustainability'
templateKey: post
title: On the Attitude of Caring
---

A good mood is contagious. I've been frequently thinking about the 'feeling' that includes a person's inherent energy and gaze. How much does this feeling reveal the essence of a person? I'm not sure, but respect and affection definitely resonate between people. The same goes for a good mood.

I often think repeatedly about growth in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, and clarity. In reading the author's intention of gifting "a good mood" to people around them, I found myself pondering what I might be losing.

>A good mood is like a seed. The good mood emitted by a shop inevitably spreads to people and society, and the good mood of people and society inevitably returns to the shop. Sustainability refers to precisely such relationships.

I wonder if I've been missing out on these "relationships that share a good mood." With family, friends, partners, and colleagues. Trees go through the seasons, even embracing dead cells as growth rings. Trees grow slowly, a little at a time for a lifetime. Plant growth is like this. I contemplate the relationships that share a good mood and my own growth.

## Reflections

- A good mood is like a seed. The good mood emitted by a shop inevitably spreads to people and society, and the good mood of people and society inevitably returns to the shop. Sustainability refers to precisely such relationships.
- Even now, many establishments regard customer service, which involves facing customers directly, as simple labor. Although they know they should be kind to customers, they often spend all their energy preparing the products and services and leave kindness to the capabilities of those handling customer service. However, without shared correct values and consciousness, problems arise if the friendliness of the establishment relies excessively on employees hastily recruited without consideration. This situation results in an inability to provide customers with a clear and consistent impression of kindness, and employees who dedicate precious parts of their time can end up having a draining day with nothing learned. There still seems to be a pervasive attitude in society that regards customer service as something temporary to earn money or something unrelated to career building. I feel a sense of disillusionment and a critical consciousness about this social atmosphere. In the past, when there was less production and consumption of new products, the role of the person delivering the product seemed more significant. Someone had to kindly explain why this product was necessary for how much it could enrich your life.
- During my time as a working professional, a question haunted me. It was, "What life plan should I make to be the happiest person when I die?" As I grow older, my movements will become more uncomfortable, and my thoughts will not be as free as before, so I thought the fear of death would increasingly consume me. Yet, in my ambition, I wanted to be the happiest person at the moment of death.
- The most important realization was that beyond making ice cream, in the entire service industry, and indeed all societal activities, ultimately, it's a matter of mood. All activities we do in our daily lives are closely connected to 'good moods' such as joy, tranquility, warmth, comfort, and satisfaction. Whether in a direct sense or in a complex context, ultimately, we pursue a better state of mind. From this perspective, the way to satisfy customers visiting a store is quite simple. The customer should leave feeling better than when they entered.
- These days, money and goods often exchange hands blandly. Sellers, as well as buyers, don't expect to feel a variety of emotions when buying something. The importance of empathy and exchange in transactions has been lost, and in its place, the necessity of having a human presence there can be dismissed. Customer service has become a choice rather than a necessity, leading to the tacit agreement between sellers and buyers that humans can be replaced by machines—a slightly bitter but perhaps naturally occurring option given the times.
- I can't agree that kiosks are the absolute right direction or that these expressionless monitors will handle most customer service in the future. I can counter this through vivid experience. This isn't about the stories related to the digital exclusion of the elderly who find kiosks hard to understand or deal with. Rather, the core issue I'm addressing is that it's tied to the slow loss of empathy growing deep within people's hearts.
- Many people, whose names and professions I don't know, have reached out to express their sympathy with the content of this guide. They've added that they would like to own it in book form. Initially baffled by the unexpected interest, I discovered a convincing reason for myself. In short, it was a signal of sympathy with the 'crisis of attitude' that has arrived in our era.