---
date: 2023-07-23 07:36:57.024000+00:00
description: Reading Anna Lembke's 'Dopamine Nation'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#PleasureAndPain'
- '#SelfManagement'
- '#DopamineFasting'
- '#Mindfulness'
- '#SelfBoundaries'
templateKey: post
title: Dull Pleasure and Sensitive Pain
---

Pleasure and pain try to balance like a scale. Where there is pleasure, pain follows, which in turn necessitates even greater pleasure.

To break the cycle, consider the following:
- Honestly assess how much you depend on something, in concrete terms.
- Examine the effects of overstimulation. Clearly identify the purpose of this.
- The problem with overstimulation. A bigger issue is not recognizing it, leading to a deteriorating life.
- [Dopamine Fasting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2y9xt4FIl7o&t=142s): Try quitting completely. Attempt this for four weeks. This is the time it takes to reset the reward pathway. Some may claim to use substances due to anxiety, but it only creates greater anxiety. To stop the pain, it's not about adding more pain or pleasure but about emptying.
- Mindfulness: When overstimulation disappears, one seeks other stimuli. At this time, observe your mind closely and accept it dispassionately while maintaining distance. The vessel shall empty.
- Insight, next steps, experimentally.

Practical methods:
- You can use the pleasure scale. When it's suffocating due to lack of pleasure, find pleasure by providing pain instead. For instance, cold showers.
- 'Self-boundaries': Create physical/cognitive barriers to addictive substances. For example, canceling a Netflix subscription.
- To avoid returning, make a concrete plan. For instance, if you stop watching Netflix, plan how to consume digital content differently.