---
date: 2025-03-09 18:21:00+00:00
description: Reflecting on Bergson's 'Laughter'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#RedTeam'
- '#Bergson'
- '#Philosophy'
- '#CriticalReview'
- '#ConceptOfLaughter'
templateKey: post
title: Red Team
---

Bergson opposes Kantian analytic philosophy and scientific reductionism. He developed a philosophy that captures **human experience intuitively**. Instead of logical and analytical philosophical writing, he used **sentences emphasizing intuition and the flow of time**. At the beginning of the book, he makes a remark that his discussion is like **“the basics of samurai swordsmanship,” not intending to explain everything**.

He defined **laughter as a kind of vital anomaly or creation against the mechanical**. However, this concept is more a result of multifaceted thinking that can be approached from various angles rather than a distinctly organized definition. Bergson describes the **world of logic and causality as 'mechanical,'** and explains the opposing anomaly and creativity as **‘vital’**. The following sentences best illustrate his thinking.

> Laughter is undoubtedly a kind of social gesture. By arousing vigilance, laughter controls ridiculous actions, continually awakens the relatively insignificant activities on the periphery that might otherwise become isolated and dulled, and maintains relationships. Thus, it eventually softens all mechanical rigidity that appears on the surface of the social fabric.

>The attitude of the human body, gestures, and movements become comical in direct proportion to the extent they remind us of simple mechanical devices.

Laughter can be seen as a **kind of mockery or distinction** that seeks to escape the mechanical. Bergson seemed to describe laughter as vitality felt in a stifling deterministic order that dominates the interactions between individuals in society. Hence, laughter felt like a kind of mockery mixed with comedy amidst tragedy. Laughter is like the sauce you dip dry chicken breast into. But that doesn't mean the chicken breast is delicious. Thus, Bergson's concept of laughter is multidimensional. A red team typically plays a **role in critically reviewing existing systems or ideas**. Was Bergson not the red team who **directly criticized 19th-century mechanistic materialism and positivism**?