---
date: 2021-09-12 14:26:08.593000+00:00
description: Andrew S. Grove, 'High Output Management'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Management'
- '#BusinessManagement'
- '#OrganizationalManagement'
- '#TeamManagement'
- '#PerformanceReview'
templateKey: post
title: Management
---

These days, I can feel the need for change in order to survive. I needed a method from another dimension, so I naturally turned to books. I found many sentences that resonated with me and comforted me, making my thoughts clearer. There were many things I was already doing, which was amazing, and I often felt as if I was hit by a hammer.

* Must have strong tolerance for disorder
* Full responsibility for the team you manage and their impact within the organization
* No one is responsible for the career of a middle manager
* Determine whether you're just a middleman or creating value
* Delegating and completely letting go is akin to giving up. Delegation also requires monitoring and full support + responsibility
* The hardest tasks are hiring and retaining those who want to leave.
* When a candidate goes off-topic, it's the interviewer's responsibility to say, "Shall we change the subject from X to Y?"
* More fearful is when a dedicated, loyal employee leaves rather than one who leaves for money and rewards elsewhere. In the latter case, it's not just a reward issue; you need a comfortable conversation when they say they're quitting
* Feedback & Performance
  * Different management based on proficiency in work (structured and task-oriented → minimal involvement)
  * Instead of focusing on training underperformers, raise the expectations for high performers.
  * Falling into the trap of justifying high performers' high performance, missing the essence of performance review as motivation.
  * General feedback on performance reviews should not be overloaded with information due to cognitive strain.
  * Avoid assessing potential. Focus on adjusting expanding expectations.
* Decision-making framework (what, when, who, with whom, who needs to know the decisions)
* Mission-centric vs. Function-centric. There's no answer, only confusion. Finding the optimal point on both extremes is crucial. Generally, it's common to switch back and forth between the two based on practicality.
  * Dual reporting (functional organization, mission-centric) is common. In functional organizations, team culture + peer pressure determine it.
  * Having a mixture of functional and purpose-driven organizations seems, from experience, to be the best measure, although it falls short. Knowing that Intel acknowledges matrix organization confusion as well was comforting.

I had to experience the resignation of many team members over the past year. Before any complex emotions or judgments, this book pinpointed how challenging it truly is, which was comforting. The same goes for recruitment. Having been at a startup for over five years, I sometimes feel I've amassed more recruiting experience than expected. Of course, it doesn't mean it gets easier, and it was refreshing to be challenged again by this book.

When I wasn't a middle manager, I absolutely loathed people who merely conveyed messages. It was a time for reflection, considering "Am I really participating in a process and creating value?" especially as the physical size of the team grows and I'm advocating delegation, feeling a strong sense of whether this is irresponsibility.

Feedback is still genuinely lacking. In a word, I'm very poor at listening. I need to dedicate myself to listening more attentively and read a few books on the methods. It was a valuable time to reflect on the past year from various angles.