---
date: 2022-10-02 11:53:05.220000+00:00
description: Thoughts on John Williams' 'Stoner'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#WhenFeelingHelpless'
- '#Family'
- '#Love'
- '#MeaningOfLife'
- '#Apathy'
templateKey: post
title: When Feeling Helpless
---

> Within less than a month, he realized that the marriage was a failure. And within less than a year, he gave up hope that their married life would get better. He learned silence and did not persist in his love. Whenever he spoke to her with affection or touched her, she would turn away, retreating inside herself, enduring his presence without saying a word. (...) In his youth, Stoner believed that love was an absolute state that only the lucky could discover. But as he grew older, he concluded that love was like heaven as described by a false religion: amusing but unbelievable, something to be looked upon with gentle, familiar contempt and a nostalgic confusion. Now in middle age, he began to understand that love was neither a grace nor an illusion.

"Family is something you want to throw into the trash when no one is looking." This line is from the drama "My Mister." Sometimes you want to escape from everything in the world, and family is no exception. There are times when life persistently feels suffocating and apathetic.

The author says the following:
> “I think he is a true hero. Many people who read this novel see Stoner's life as sad and unhappy. However, in my view, his life was quite wonderful. It’s clear that he lived a better life than most people. He did what he wanted to do, had some affection for it, and believed there was meaning in what he did.”