---
date: 2019-01-20
description: Reflecting on Changjun Kim's 『Growing Together』
image: /img/book/teamplay.jpg
keywords: Changjun Kim, Growing Together, Agile, Software
tags:
- '#Collaboration'
- '#WildLearning'
- '#WorkPerformance'
- '#SelfDevelopment'
- '#Immersion'
templateKey: post
title: If You Want to Go Far, Go Together
---

Reality is complex. Achieving significant accomplishments through individual efforts alone in such a complex reality is not easy. Social elements like giving and receiving help, delegating, and exchanging feedback are important in achieving results. However, we often do not think about growth from the perspective of collaboration. 

We usually focus on growth from a technical viewpoint of the individual. I've often done so myself. As a result, it's easy to blame external factors that are beyond one's control, with little consideration for my capacity to change those external factors.

## Takeaways

- "Wild learning" is a concept contrary to school learning. It doesn't have right answers, clear evaluation criteria, or defined limits. Wild learning becomes more important in environments with high uncertainty. Simply repeating school learning methods may not be effective in wild learning scenarios.
- Career length can only provide enough information to distinguish whether a person is a novice or not. In the initial years, career length is quite correlated, but beyond a minimum experience point, the correlation between years of career and work performance is low.
- Tests that simulate job tasks after hiring showed a high correlation with job performance.
- According to one study, job performance is determined by how much one practices and learns.
- No matter how excellent a person you hire, they can be overshadowed if there are problems with the organization's system and culture. Conversely, even ordinary individuals can achieve remarkable results in a good system.
- Walking for over 55 years doesn't necessarily improve your walking (ellipsis)... believing you'll excel just by doing what you enjoy is a myth.
- Feedback and deliberate practice are crucial for learning.
- Self-development yields compound returns.
- Jobs that are hard to learn tend to survive. Those where goals are unclear, unstructured, and shrouded in uncertainty. Environments limited to predefined tasks can be a curse rather than a blessing.
- When the difficulty of the work and one's skill level are appropriately matched, it's easy to immerse and grow. If there's excessive anxiety or boredom, the environment may not foster skill growth. A team leader can help the team members find their state of flow.
- An example of deliberate practice is reading programming tutorials with a goal in mind, like deciding on something to create, rather than just reading them. Similar actions include reading others' code, such as from standard libraries, or adding necessary features to open-source projects.
- Mistakes are closer to management than prevention in innovative companies.
- Someone who knows a lot isn't always the best teacher. Focusing on cognitive processes during student-teacher interactions enhances the learning effect. Understanding why students struggle and what their thought processes are, and teaching from a similar context is effective.
- People have a myth of the solitary expert. In reality, high-performing experts have excellent social capital and skills. Social factors such as giving and receiving aid, teaching and learning, delegating, and providing feedback are extremely important in advancing work. Social factors can be more of a bottleneck in achieving results than technical factors.
- Emphasizing quiet spaces can risk creating an environment where communication is not active.
- Many programmers consider collaboration and communication reluctant tasks.
- There's research indicating that collaboration is much more effective with a mediator (like a whiteboard or paper) than without visualization tools (using only text or phone).
- If you want to achieve abstraction, collaborate.
- Sharing won't always build trust. If sharing is perceived as presenting it as "the single best" idea, it can hinder open feedback and productive discussions. Instead, share multiple ideas that convey context and background sharply and intuitively.
- Subjectivity and emotions are as important as objectivity in decision-making. Emotions cannot be excluded.
- Coaching that implies "Don’t you know this?" isn't effective. Good coaching involves understanding the mental model of the person who doesn’t know something, pondering over it together, and encouraging that person.
- From abstract to concrete. In flows like 'strategy → planning → development', the seamless connection from abstract levels to concrete levels may work well in well-defined problems but not in uncertain problems. In complex problems, preparing more thoroughly and adopting a top-down approach might be a mistake. Since goals are unclear, constant adjustments need to be made, and more rigorous processes inhibit such adaptability and flexibility. Ideally, it's desirable to move back and forth between abstract and concrete levels.
- Bringing experts together may actually lower performance. Explicit assistance for good information sharing and collaboration is necessary, and having socially skilled generalists helps.
- One of the characteristics of outstanding teams, according to Google, is how team members interact and perceive their jobs, rather than the specifics of which experts and personalities are present. Another trait is psychological safety, the belief that one's thoughts or opinions won't be criticized or ridiculed.
- Research suggests that the usual time estimates people give need to be multiplied by at least 2-3 times to have about an 80% probability of completing the task.
- Agile, in a nutshell, is "deliver value to the customer daily." It's worth contemplating who our true customers are and how to incrementally and frequently deliver value early on. Consider what is valuable, what currently holds the greatest value, and whether that value is being effectively communicated.
- It's similar to believing anyone can become a better version of themselves compared to last year.
- Michael Polanyi emphasized the importance of tacit knowledge, stating, "We know more than we can tell."
- Toyota is the only company that has successfully adopted the Toyota Way. It wasn't due to individual methodologies like Kanban, but because of the cultural atmosphere and generative processes that allowed such practices to emerge.