---
date: 2018-07-15
description: Reading Sam Walton's "Made in America"
image: /img/book/wal-mart.png
tags:
- '#Walmart'
- '#SuccessPrinciples'
- '#CustomerValue'
- '#CorporateCulture'
- '#InformationSharing'
templateKey: post
title: Execution of Clear Principles
---

There is no magic formula for success. Basics are crucial. Walmart establishes and practices simple and clear principles. In weekly meetings for selecting items between MD and managers, there was a principle of never deferring decisions. There was also a principle of covering office operating expenses within 2% of sales.

Walmart aimed to achieve economies of scale at a low profit margin. There were many challenges in this process. Ultimately, value was delivered to the end consumer. Significant innovation occurred in the rigid supplier-based distribution structure. In the end, customer value is the key driver of innovation. It is not about succeeding "because of XXX," but rather succeeding because they excelled in delivering value to customers "through XXX."

## Summary

- I engaged directly in areas where I had strengths and relied on others in areas where I was weak. In that sense, I think my approach as a manager was mostly due to my aptitude for numbers.

- True meaning of partnership. Some sell the cheap 'value of partnership.' It is desirable to consider motivation beyond profit distribution, authority, and responsibility. Becoming a true 'servant leader.'

- Obsession with customers. It's important that the customer's voice doesn't just become a logic but rather a goal.

- Sharing of information. Sales/prices cuts/profits and purchases are all disclosed to everyone. It may be sensitive information in wholesale, but I believe we practiced sharing the value of information ahead of our time.

- Corporate culture. Voluntary meetings every Saturday morning. Anyone can present, and the goal is to inform all employees about what's happening in the company.

- Always say to buyers, "You are negotiating not for Walmart, but for the customer. The customer deserves the best price you can get. Don't feel sorry for suppliers. They know how much they should sell for, and we only ask for the lowest price they can offer."

- Sam would regularly show up at the driver’s lounge at 4 a.m. with a bunch of donuts, sit there, and chat with them for a couple of hours. He would bombard them with questions. "What have you seen in that store?" "Have you visited that store recently?" "How are the employees doing there?" "Is it improving now?" Sam had reasons for these questions. The drivers visit more stores weekly than anyone else in the company. Sam liked the drivers because they were different from most managers; they didn’t care who the other person was and said what they thought unfiltered.

- For decades, we have worked to create a small and efficient company, deriving company direction from lower levels. (...) Yet we have learned practical things by thinking small and developed several principles that have greatly impacted our company's success.

- By focusing on the smallest managerial unit, we always have the policy of 'thinking small' in our company.

- The most valuable knowledge that comes up in meetings all comes directly from the stores themselves.

- In retail, traditionally, there have been fierce battles between managers and merchandising buyers. (...) We engage in fiercely terrible and ruthless battles never seen before. But we have one rule: never defer a decision on any item.