---
date: 2018-03-25
description: Reading Eliyahu Goldratt & Peter Drucker's "The Goal"
image: /img/book/goal.jpeg
keywords: The Goal,Eliyahu Goldratt,Peter Drucker
tags:
- '#TOC'
- '#Theory of Constraints'
- '#Production Management'
- '#Goal Setting'
- '#Bottleneck Management'
templateKey: post
title: The Goal
---
This book explains the concept of TOC (Theory of Constraints) in a novel format. TOC is a production management method that identifies and resolves bottlenecks within an entire system. In production, the bottleneck process dictates the throughput (cash generation rate). Therefore, managing bottleneck resources well is exceedingly important in achieving the goal of cash generation.

The five-step system for identifying and resolving constraints (bottlenecks) is as follows:

1. Identify the constraint.
2. Decide how to exploit the constraint.
3. Subordinate all other processes to the above decision.
4. Elevate the constraint.
5. If, in step 4, the constraint ceases to be a limiting factor, return to step 1.

The story surrounding these five steps is told through a novel. It’s quite entertaining when the protagonist Alex participates in his son's Boy Scouts activity. During a hike, Alex observes the gaps between the leading and trailing teams due to the staggered lineup. He realizes that delays among members in the lineup eventually accumulate for those at the back. The scene where Alex proves this through a matchstick-moving game with the kids during a break was particularly impressive. In this simple game, each person rolls a die and moves forward the number of matches corresponding to the roll. The person at the front can move an unlimited number of matches from the matchbox, but, except for the front person, there are frequently occasions where they can’t move because there are no matches from the person right before them.

> The probability of someone without a clear goal for their work becoming a talent is less than 0.0000001 percent. -- Peter Drucker

For Alex, the protagonist, and the other members working in the factory, the starting point of change was the contemplation of the goal. I felt they were working automatically, immersed in tasks without a goal. Sometimes, I wish to be someone who can ask, "So what's the goal?"

After reading it, I thought the title was very well chosen.

## Book Highlights

- 91 What happens if a company doesn't make money? If production and sales are halted, dealings with current partners are cut off, and there's no surplus for asset sales, the company won’t be able to function normally anymore.

- 103 CEOs often enjoy games similar to this. They have a tendency to neglect long-term investment strategies to maximize net profit. It's because it’s a brilliant move that can reduce self-capital risk while maximizing core industry indicators. Anyway, from the perspective of essential elements of business management, it was clear that the above three factors (net profit, return on investment, cash flow) are closely interconnected from a variety of angles.

- 118 It means that even if the goals are the same, different standards are added depending on who drafts them. But ultimately, if you isolate the ultimate goal, everything boils down to 'making money'.

- 119 It’s better to have no indicators than those that are poorly defined.

- 165 Adjusting production capacity for goals is an excessive obsession. Did revenue increase when employees were laid off?

- 189 Summing up the inference so far, we have speed limits. On the other hand, there are no limits to slowing down or stopping. This logic applies not just to me but to everyone. Therefore, if someone slows their speed to an infinite degree, speed will infinitely stretch. The issue was not the average of changes but the 'accumulation' of changes. Currently, we were accumulating slow speeds due to dependent constraints. That’s why we are distancing ourselves from our goal by the accumulated time. (...) Ultimately, if I, at the very end of the lineup, want to reduce the entire length, I must compensate for the distance accumulated by changes made by everyone.

- 213 The purpose of this hike is not to see who arrives at 'Devil’s Canyon' first. Don’t forget that the hiking goal is for all of us gathered here to reach 'Devil’s Canyon'! Remember, we’re one team, not individual runners.

- 252 If production speed and market demand remain equal, who suffers when market demand decreases? That would be the producer. This implies it’s the producer’s role to control the speed.

- 278 So, are you recommending quality checks before each bottleneck resource stage?

- 281 You must first realize that a factory’s finished product capacity matches the bottleneck resource’s production capacity. The hourly production capacity of the bottleneck resource matches the entire factory’s finished products. Therefore, one hour wasted at the bottleneck resource is, in effect, equivalent to wasting an hour across the entire factory system.

- 548 It’s the ability to answer these three simple questions: 'What needs to change?', 'What should it change to?', 'How will we cause change?'. This is the most fundamental competency managers need to have.