---
date: 2024-08-09 05:44:23.282000+00:00
description: Reading Johan Idema's 'How to Use an Art Museum'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Museum'
- '#Art'
- '#Exhibition'
- '#Travel'
- '#BookReview'
templateKey: post
title: A Person Who Goes to Museums
---

>“What did you do today?”
>“Oh, I went to a museum today.”


A friend suddenly suggested meeting in Itaewon. It was a gathering with friends of friends. As we exchanged the question "What did you do today?" with people I was meeting for the first time, I mentioned I went to a museum. Somehow, it felt awkward. “Oh, I’m not exactly the type to frequently visit exhibitions by myself... it was just an impulsive decision today..." It felt embarrassing, as if I was pretending to be someone I’m not.

Last year, I traveled to San Francisco. On the last day, I persuaded the friend I was traveling with to visit MoMA. Honestly, I didn’t feel an immediate awe or emotional impact while viewing the artworks. I just went to the exhibition to enjoy the meaningless and ambiguous feelings. The experience of visiting a famous overseas museum was intriguing as well.

Museums have always been ambiguous places for me, offering a temporary escape from reality. However, I wanted to understand museums more profoundly and clearly beyond the ambiguity. I wanted to feel more moved by the paintings. That's why I read this book.

Yet the museums discussed in the book are also puzzling to me. The advice "talk to the guards about the museum and its artworks" sounded unrealistic to me. The part I could somewhat relate to was about how much explanation a museum should provide for the artwork, and whether an artist would leave the title of a work as "Untitled." Art still feels more ambiguous and empty compared to text.

There will be dozens of visits to museums over the course of my life. Can I enjoy museums a little more each time? I hope to find a bit of the answer.