---
date: 2024-11-25 22:16:00+00:00
description: Is divergence useless?
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#DivergenceAndConvergence'
- '#DoubleDiamondModel'
- '#DecisionMaking'
- '#UXResearch'
- '#Goal_NonGoal'
templateKey: post
title: Divergence and Convergence
---

In order to converge, divergence is necessary.

I recalled my university club activities. Discussions during those activities were quite tedious. We decided to practice the [Double Diamond Model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_Diamond_(design_process_model)), but believed that divergence in the process was useless. I thought it was easy to diverge, but defining what to do among those was more difficult and important. To be more honest, I felt that my own divergence was right, but others' divergence seemed boring.

I engaged in work that involved systematically reviewing issues and making decisions. Looking back, I engaged in both divergence and convergence. I tried to broadly diverge over the entire issue, structure it, and then converge to provide choices. Showing what is unimportant helps identify what is important. Therefore, divergence is necessary.

The quality of divergence greatly varies depending on how well you frame it. Take user research as an example. The questions to be asked can be largely divided into two categories: "Who are the users and what are they trying to do?" or "Can people use what we've designed?" The former pertains to needs, while the latter relates to usability. You need to align your thought structure before diverging to sharply define the problem. A similar example is when setting goals, by diverging what is not a goal. This helps clarify the boundary between what is and isn't a goal. This is a form of divergence.

Divergence leads to convergence.