---
date: 2022-11-01 23:31:11.641000+00:00
description: Thoughts on Scott Young's "Ultralearning"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Learning'
- '#Programming'
- '#Ultralearning'
- '#Growth'
- '#CareerDevelopment'
templateKey: post
title: Learning
---

When I was a junior in college, I really just spent my time eating with people and coding. Reading this book reminded me a lot of those times. I was building, breaking, and learning in reverse. It felt like I was learning from real-world practice rather than theory. I was fortunate to have such experiences in my life, and it significantly transformed my life. I ended up getting my first job as a developer, unrelated to my major.

I transitioned from frontend to backend, and from backend to data engineering. By continuously solving necessary problems as situations arose, I gained trust within the company. I was able to challenge myself in various fields, learn, and solve problems. I had to learn to achieve.

Now, describing myself definitively feels quite ambiguous. Just yesterday, a former colleague said, “When someone asked me what kind of work you did, I found it hard to describe.” I've navigated through different areas, always needing to learn something in the process.

However, after reading this book, I couldn't shake the thought, “What areas have I not been able to penetrate? Am I achieving enough outside my comfort zone?” It made me ponder what I want or need to learn, and whether I am dedicating the appropriate amount of time to it. People age, and so do the desire and energy to grow.

Shouldn't I be more intentional about my obsession with growth and development?