---
date: 2021-03-08 15:00:41.003000+00:00
description: Jeff Bezos, reflections on 'Invent and Wander'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Bezos'
- '#InventAndWander'
- '#ShareholderLetters'
- '#InternetIndustry'
- '#CorporateCulture'
templateKey: post
title: Writings of Bezos
---

Invent and Wander. The word "wander" stands out more. It includes everything from shareholder letters to various speeches. The concise short writings on various topics made it an easy read. Despite being translated, you can feel how succinct the writing is.

Notes
- Think backwards. Instead of "let's do OOO well," start from the customer's needs.
- Great people are said to have been curious.
- The internet industry is growing by 2300%.
- Business plans may become worthless in reality, but the process of creating them provides time for reflection and a sense of security.
- Believe in intuition, but maintain humility.
- Clear writing creates clear thoughts.
- Long-term perspective.
- Studied theoretical physics but switched to computer science after seeing an outstanding friend.
- Will you be a cynical person, or will you be curious and pioneering?
- "There are ways to work diligently for a long time, to work hard, and to work smart. But at Amazon.com, you do not have a choice. You have to do all three."
- Optimistic about the future.
- A way to make excellent talents leave is to slow down decision-making processes dramatically.
- Raising hiring standards. The standard should be raised continuously so that current members think, "I'm glad I joined Amazon early."
- Fantastic business plan
    - Customers must love it.
    - It should be able to grow to a large scale.
    - Return on capital must be high.
    - It must be sustainable.
    - If something like this exists, you shouldn't hesitate to commit to it.
- Corporate culture, whether good or bad, is hard to change. Weaknesses can become strengths.
- Disagree but commit.
- If a team wants to maintain high standards, they should realistically acknowledge in advance the difficulties they will face in reaching them and actively share this. Otherwise, they might give up halfway.