---
date: 2019-05-27
description: Reading "Eleven Steps" by Chae Sa-jang
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Chae Sa-jang, Eleven Steps
subtitle: Reading "Eleven Steps" by Chad Williams
tags:
- '#Philosophy'
- '#LifeOfNavigation'
- '#ComplexityAndDiscomfort'
- '#IntellectualDiscourse'
- '#ChaeSaJang'
templateKey: post
title: Through Complexity and Discomfort
---

> "Just because a sailor drifted around the same spot, driven by fierce storms and winds from all directions upon setting sail, doesn't mean he could be considered to have completed a long voyage. He merely floated on the surface for a long time."

The author emphasizes choosing and overcoming an uncomfortable world to avoid a life adrift. They suggest exploring uncomfortable worlds rather than building small fortresses to maintain one's completeness.

> Growing up is a sad affair. Maturing as an adult means embracing the complexities of the world with composure. - From "Eleven Steps"

Introducing the eleven steps of Chae Sa-jang's voyage. It includes diverse stories of Nietzsche, Buddha, Jesus, the universe, Che Guevara, and others.

During my one-hour commute, I listened to the podcast "Intellectual Discourse." Chae Sa-jang and three other hosts discussed various topics in an easy and entertaining way. It was especially interesting when the hosts clashed. I felt that I lacked experience and learning, leaning towards simplicity over complexity. In "Intellectual Discourse," they didn't fixate on simplicity but willingly embraced complexity. They were guides to exploring an uncomfortable life for me, as the complex world was indeed discomforting.

Chae Sa-jang remains an excellent guide.