---
date: 2016-05-07
description: Reading C.P. Snow's "The Two Cultures"
image: /img/adler.jpg
keywords: Two Cultures, Snow, Humanities, Science
tags:
  - "#TwoCultures"
  - "#ScienceAndHumanities"
  - "#LackOfCommunication"
  - "#EducationMethod"
templateKey: post
title: Learning To Speak Through Imperfect Words
---

C.P. Snow's "The Two Cultures" addresses the profound divide between science and the humanities. He warns that the lack of communication between these two groups in modern society hinders intellectual and social progress. Snow criticizes the reality where scientists and humanists fail to understand each other and argues that bridging this gap is essential to solving important social issues. The book emphasizes the need for an integrated approach to science and the humanities, offering deep reflections on the role of intellectuals. It is said that since its publication, it has made significant contributions to integrated discussions. I believe this claim remains valid even over 50 years later.

Snow criticizes the phenomenon where scientists ignore or do not understand literature, and humanists lack scientific knowledge. This might be because science is slightly less accessible. Science has entry barriers, and there are fewer people engaging in science as a hobby compared to the humanities. Conversely, experiences in the humanities are woven into life. We can grasp the worlds of materialism and idealism in a simple way while drinking because we have experienced the humanities, even without formal education. Admittedly, connecting science to life experiences seems more challenging. Few people find joy in thinking about torque equations as they open a door.

For addressing the lack of understanding between the two cultures, Snow emphasizes education as a solution. However, I hope this education focuses on experience rather than theory. Just as we don't study the theory of basketball before playing the game, we shouldn't strive to learn the principles of science but rather experience it. A small child learns to speak through imperfect words.