---
date: 2024-09-28 23:55:00+00:00
description: Reading Choi Byung-chun's 'Good Inequality'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Inequality'
- '#EconomicGrowth'
- '#IncomeInequality'
- '#Capitalism'
- '#EconomicTheory'
templateKey: post
title: Wrong Perspectives on Inequality
---

When people think of inequality, they often imagine "the rich exploiting the poor." However, when we scrutinize the overall structure, this is not necessarily the case.

Imagine two people standing in the cold winter. One person is wearing a padded jacket, while the other is wearing a short sleeve shirt. The reason the person in the short sleeve shirt feels colder is not because of the one wearing the padded jacket. Yet, we often think in this manner. This perspective is similar to how we view inequality.

In 1991, the collapse of the Soviet Union marked the end of the Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Communist countries began participating in the capitalist market economy. In the early 1990s, the global workforce was about 1.5 billion, but by the 2000s, it had nearly doubled to about 3 billion, signaling a significant transformation. Competition intensified, polarization began, and the share of global GDP in trade of goods increased sharply. Influenced by China's growth, South Korea experienced significant growth from 1990 to 2007. During this period, inequality in Korea also intensified.

Theoretically, inequality inevitably occurs in the growth process. It would be ideal if everyone could grow equally, but in reality, growth accompanies inequality. China promoted the theory of "getting rich first," implying that eventually, everyone would become wealthy together. This could be considered China's version of the trickle-down theory. People prefer to earn more in inequality rather than have absolute income equality. The desire for individual income inequality can also drive overall growth.

Growth and inequality are closely related, but not causal. Inequality can increase or decrease with growth. Conversely, eliminating inequality doesn't guarantee economic growth. These two elements influence each other and move together but cannot be explained by a simple causal relationship.

This book addresses Korean inequality not just in a conceptual and theoretical manner but with practical examples and concrete numbers. It provides compelling, fact-based arguments about why linking political power with inequality is misguided.