---
date: 2024-12-21 14:57:00+00:00
description: After undergoing SMILE surgery
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#SMILEsurgery'
- '#visioncorrection'
- '#doctorselection'
- '#complications'
- '#recoveryprocess'
templateKey: post
title: Accident
---

Although SMILE is known as a comparatively simple vision correction surgery, it can be overhyped. Before the surgery, I was filled with anticipation. However, there were lingering discomforts and issues after the surgery. I reconsidered the decision-making process and judgment I had made.

I chose SMILE simply because it was the most expensive surgery. I had a vague belief that the expensive surgery would guarantee the best results. However, since SMILE involves a small incision and requires precision, the doctor's skill and experience significantly impact the outcome. When choosing the hospital, I relied merely on advertisements and word-of-mouth, without confirming who the operating doctor would be or what experience they had. Eventually, I underwent the surgery with an inexperienced doctor, and as a result, I still need to wear glasses. Moreover, even wearing glasses, the cloudy and unclear vision continues to bother me.

I had a vague expectation that "since everyone else is doing well, I will too." Listening to the success stories around me and reading online reviews, I thought I would recover without any issues as well. I trivialized the negative cases or the potential for failure. But not everyone achieves the same results, and the outcome can greatly differ depending on an individual's eye condition and the surgical process. After several months post-surgery, my vision did not improve significantly from 0.3, and I still experienced astigmatism, which made me realize this point keenly.

Looking back, I sometimes think this was an accident. Would the doctor have wanted to ruin my eyes intentionally? In life, there are such irreversible accidents. Even though I'm gradually becoming more composed about how to navigate this situation wisely, it still remains challenging.