---
date: 2024-12-09 09:20:00+00:00
description: Reading Alain de Botton's 'On Love'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
  - "#love"
  - "#alaindebotton"
  - "#reading"
templateKey: post
title: Thoughts on Love
---

It's been several years since I entered my 30s, and as time goes by, I find myself becoming a bit more cynical about love. On one hand, I become more particular about people, and my curiosity and energy to get to know someone are gradually diminishing. From the attraction of love to the parting. Alain de Botton's delicate descriptions and thoughts. His raw honesty was quite captivating, and his analytical process was somewhat familiar to me.

How much attraction and to what extent is required to call something love?

Summary
- "What I'm saying is that it's very subjective. We cannot think that there is just one trait called 'love.' When people say they love, what they mean is all different. Distinguishing between passion and love, getting infatuated momentarily versus love, is tricky—."
- If you ask most people if they believe in love, they would probably say no. But that doesn’t necessarily mean it's their true belief. It’s simply a way to protect themselves if they don't get what they want. People do believe in love, but they pretend otherwise until a situation arises that allows them to believe. Most people would love to cast cynicism aside if possible.
- One of the ironies of love is that the person who is least attractive is often the easiest to seduce. Saying I love Chloe means I've lost all belief in my self-worth. What could I be compared to her? It would be an honor if she even responded to a few words that fall from my humble mouth—only possible if my tongue loosens. What greater honor than her agreeing to have dinner with me and dressing elegantly, asking in the car, "Does this look good?" and adding, "It better look good. I can’t try on clothes six times, can I?"
- Nothing opposes thought as much as sex does. Sex is instinctive, unreflective, and spontaneous. In contrast, thought is cautious, unwilling to get involved, and looks to judge. To think while having sex is to breach a fundamental rule of sexual engagement. But was there a choice?
- When the other person actually loves me, their attraction can vanish in an instant. We love because we want to be with an ideal person who helps free us from our own compromised selves. But what if that being changes their mind one day and decides to love me? I can only be shocked. For that person to acknowledge someone like me is worth loving means there’s something questionable about their taste, and how could someone with such flaws be as wonderful as I imagined? If loving means believing the other is somehow better than us, isn't it a cruel paradox when they reciprocate our love? We ask, “If he/she is really so wonderful, how could they love someone like me?”
- "If a guy says he'll call at 9 and genuinely calls at 9, I don't answer. What on earth is he desperately trying to achieve? The only guy I like keeps me waiting. At 9:30, I'm willing to do anything for him."