---
title: The Attitude of Love
description: Reading Erich Fromm's 'The Art of Loving'
date: 2025-05-08
tags:
  - book
links:
---
>Originally, love is not a relationship with a specific person. Love is not a relationship with one person or an 'object' of love, but an 'attitude' that determines a relationship with the entire world, that is, a 'direction of character.'

Erich Fromm points out that most people mistakenly view love as the ability to be loved or to find the right object, rather than as a skill to be learned. He views love not as an emotion but as a skill that must be acquired through theoretical understanding and practical training.

Fromm argues that capitalist society commodifies humans, reducing even love to an exchange value. In other words, the dominant mindset is that as a 'decent product' myself, I meet you, another 'decent product,' and this turns love into a conditional and calculative transaction.

In contrast, the true love that Fromm speaks of is the ability to give oneself, a mature attitude towards others. He believes that love is not determined by a specific object but depends on the attitude and ability of the person. Thus, anyone who knows how to love can love anyone, and love is not merely an emotion toward a specific person.

He also mentions care, responsibility, respect, and understanding as essential elements required to reach love. All these elements manifest through active practice, and he explains that love is ultimately an expression of a mature and productive life.

I am not free from Fromm's criticism that we regard love as "the ability to be loved or to find the right object." His argument resonates with me. True love requires inner maturity and effort and interest towards others. Last year, I went on an unusually high number of blind dates. I wondered if 'finding the object' is that difficult. Reading the book made me think about 'my attitude towards loving someone.'

Modern people regard themselves as commodities. We become increasingly alienated and standardized. We repeat a fixed routine for eight hours a day. There is no room to train ourselves or reflect. As a reaction to standardization, we indulge in some laziness. We are beings who, not being able to care for ourselves, find love difficult. It is a sad reality.

Many people, like me, might be drawn to a title like 'How to Find Love?' Ultimately, Fromm suggests looking into oneself. I wake up at dawn to exercise. In the future, maybe I should not only exercise but also have more time for myself.

---

## Summary
- Thinking of 'going crazy' as proof of passionate love at most demonstrates how lonely they were before they met each other.
- There is an essential factor in mastering a skill. Mastery of skills should be the ultimate concern.
- The one who gives a lot is rich, not the one who has a lot.
- A child's love follows the principle of 'I love because I am loved,' while mature love follows the principle of 'I am loved because I love.'
- Originally, love is not a relationship with a specific person. Love is not a relationship with one person or an 'object' of love, but an 'attitude' that determines a relationship with the entire world, that is, a 'direction of character.'
- If love is the ability of those with a mature and productive character,