---
date: 2018-01-27 23:31:00+00:00
description: Reading Saito Takashi's 'Reading Nietzsche Closely'
image: /img/book/nietzsche.jpg
keywords: Reading Nietzsche Closely, Saito Takashi, Nietzsche, nietzsche
tags:
  - "#Nietzsche"
  - "#PassionForLife"
  - "#SupermanSpirit"
  - "#SelfLove"
  - "#Solitude"
templateKey: post
title: Passion for Life
---

I felt a thematic focus on 'passion for life.' He discusses the spirit of the superman, who remains positive, dreams, and hopes even in tragic situations.

## Book Summary

* Everyone should live a proactive life by continually adding new dreams to their future visions. Never be content with small achievements or worry about possible upcoming barriers whenever you encounter minor obstacles, preventing you from stepping forward toward the future. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* Do not belittle yourself as a worthless person. Such an attitude shackles your actions and thoughts. Whatever you do, start by loving yourself. Even if you have achieved nothing yet in life, always love and respect yourself as a noble human being. Loving yourself means you will never commit wrongdoing or anything that warrants rebuke. Never forget that this attitude acts as the most powerful force in dreaming about the future. *Ecce Homo*
* I wish for you to never abandon hope and love, to never abandon the hero that resides within your soul, and to constantly direct your gaze straight at the pinnacle of life you aspire to. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* People who frequently use the word 'equality' either desire to bring others down to their level or to elevate themselves and others to a higher dimension. Therefore, when someone advocates equality, you must clearly understand which side they are on. *Human, All Too Human*
* People ardently seek someone to find their true self. They look for friends who will acknowledge them and rely on someone for vague comfort. Why is that? Because they are lonely. Why are they lonely? Because they do not love themselves properly. Even with many friends to share fleeting joys, the wound from solitude will not heal easily. To truly love oneself, one must first devote all their energy to something. Walking towards higher ground on their own legs may bring pain, but it is pain that strengthens the muscles of the mind. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* Those who try to attract the world's attention with some special act do not do so out of originality but simply for recognition. Truly original people have an eye for things others have seen but not yet recognized, things that even lack proper names, and they give them new names. By the world accepting this new naming and acknowledging its existence, a new part of the world is born. *The Gay Science*
* Whether doing creative or mundane work, approaching it always with a bright and light feeling leads to smooth progress. This way, a freedom unconcerned with trivial constraints emerges. Maintaining such an attitude throughout life will in itself make one achieve much. *Human, All Too Human*
* Do not ignore the hero residing within your soul. Do not nostalgically speak of your body and ideals directed toward higher places as tales of the distant past. As you live and come to abandon dreams and ideals, you begin to mock those who speak of them, and envy brings turmoil to the heart. In such a state, the will to progress and the firm resolve to overcome oneself are abandoned. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*
* There are many books on how to live, but finding one that suits me is difficult. It is entirely natural that others' ways do not fit me. The problem lies in my complete lack of awareness of the content of the 'why?' questions I pose. Why do I want to do that? Why do I want to become that way? Why do I want to take that path? My inability to answer is because I lack clear evaluation criteria for such internal questions. Only when you can present an answer to the question mark of 'why?' can you understand what and how you should do, leaving only the task of walking down that path. *Twilight of the Idols*
* Do not despair over a lack of inherent talent. If you lack it, you acquire it. *Daybreak*
* Learn how to laugh greatly beyond yourselves and open your chests wide, higher and higher! Do not forget a big laugh worthy of a brilliant dancer. *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*