---
date: 2021-08-22 07:57:14.109000+00:00
description: Satya Nadella, reading 'Hit Refresh'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#refresh'
- '#change'
- '#satyanadella'
- '#microsoft'
- '#leadership'
templateKey: post
title: Refresh
---
Change is difficult. The older and larger something is, the more so. There have been frequent mentions of Microsoft making a significant transformation. At the center of this was Satya Nadella. What happened? "Clearly, collaboratively, getting things done" is what sticks in my mind.


## Summary

* Whether for people, organizations, or society, there comes a moment when a refresh is necessary. When that moment comes, you must rekindle your passion, reset your goals with a new mindset, and think intensely.
* “What would you do if a baby were lying on the street crying?" Richard asked.

  "I would call 911.”

  I answered without much thought. Then Richard got up, approached me, and hugged me.

  “You need a bit of empathy. If a baby is crying on the street, you should pick up the baby."
* I believe empathy is the most important quality in a leader because it builds the confidence of the team members they lead.
* “We can harbor bold ambitions. We can set daring goals. We can aspire to achieve a new mission. But all of this is only possible if we practice and teach our culture. This is related to a dynamic learning culture. In fact, the phrase that explains our new culture is 'growth mindset.' It's because it describes us all as having an attitude and mindset that enables personal growth and company growth, overcoming any obstacles and conquering any difficulties.”
* A leader is someone who finds a jewel in the trash can.
* Three principles that Microsoft leaders should have
  * Every organization would say it's challenging, but there are three leadership principles that I expect from leaders at Microsoft.
  * First, communicate clearly with the people you work with. This is a basic attitude of a leader. To communicate clearly, a leader must synthesize complex situations. Leaders listen to the loud noises both inside and outside and discern the true signals hidden in that noise. I'm not interested in who is the smartest. I want the employees to understand the situation with their knowledge, share it with their team members, and then decide on a course of action.
  * Second, leaders generate energy not just in the teams they lead but throughout the organization. It's not enough to focus solely on the organization they lead. Leaders must encourage people to embrace optimism, creativity, and a shared commitment so that they grow through both good times and bad. Leaders create an environment where everyone can do their best. They build an organization and teams that will be stronger tomorrow than they are today.
  * Third, leaders find a way to success by getting things done. In other words, they inspire innovation that people want, empower them to move towards their goals, and find solutions from a holistic perspective, balancing long-term success and short-term performance.
* “As we can imagine machines acting more freely beyond human control, we can also imagine machines that respond more sensitively to ethically significant issues. There is no perfect machine, but there are better machines."