---
date: 2020-05-05 13:33:29.550000+00:00
description: Reading Herman Hesse's 『Siddhartha』
image: /img/mark-daynes-j6p8nfceus4-unsplash.jpg
tags:
  - "#Siddhartha"
  - "#Enlightenment"
templateKey: post
title: Thought and Patience
---

Siddhartha was born into the highest Indian caste, the Brahman. He leaves home with his friend Govinda in search of enlightenment. They visit Gautama, the supreme Buddha. However, Siddhartha believes that enlightenment cannot be attained through others' words or doctrines, so he leaves Govinda behind and falls in love with the courtesan Kamala. He lives among merchants in the material world and becomes wealthy. After a long time, he sets off again in pursuit of enlightenment. Later, he spends the rest of his life with the ferryman Vasudeva.

Siddhartha thought and acted independently. He left a comfortable family life despite their opposition and lived happily. Instead of following Gautama, the most authoritative sage at the time, he embarked on a journey for his own enlightenment. Even during his worldly life that began with his love for Kamala, he sought enlightenment once again. He continually acted without blindly conforming to his surroundings. He aimed to realize enlightenment on his own. The process seemed akin to listening to himself. Siddhartha willingly wandered and wavered, becoming stronger in the process.

Siddhartha, having nothing, speaks about his usefulness in negotiations with a merchant as follows:

> “I can think, I can wait, I can fast. I can think. I can wait. I can fast.”

It raises a question. Can I think, wait, and fast?