---
date: 2020-03-01 07:43:03.836000+00:00
description: Thoughts after reading Kim Byung-wan's "Cheoseo Reading Method"
image: /img/running.jpg
tags:
- '#ReadingMethod'
- '#Thinking'
- '#BookSummary'
- '#CriticalThinking'
- '#ReadingHabits'
templateKey: post
title: Thinking
---

> "Even after reading ten million books, if you do not write with your own words, the reading is not complete."

The reading method explained in the book isn't a special skill. The main point is not just to read the text but to understand and think about the content. It's quite a trite theme, yet with a mindset of "So what?", I found myself reading the book with interest and finished it right away.

The reading method is explained in three main steps. Before reading, jot down why you are reading, your current state of knowledge, and your predictions about the content. While reading, summarize the key points and note down related thoughts. After reading, accept the content critically, and write thoughts about your changes or expanding topics. In summary, it's important not just to read a book but to understand it and form your own thoughts.

Summarizing while reading is very important. Of course, you shouldn't disrupt your reading pace by summarizing. However, summarizing **after finishing reading is really, really, really difficult.** At the very least, after reading a chapter, you should pick out the key sentences. This is always challenging. The difficulty of occasionally organizing the content while reading is similar to the challenge of maintaining a regular routine to avoid delaying laundry.

Writing thoughts about the book is a challenging task. It's said that beginners in reading have less than 30% of their reflections when asked to write a book review. I fall into that beginner category too. However, after consistently writing on this blog for several years, I have personally felt an increase in the proportion of my thoughts.

The author suggests that the criterion for "having read a book" is whether you can summarize and explain the book's content to someone else. Am I reading books to the extent that I can explain them?