---
date: 2019-09-03
description: 'After reading "The Reason Why the Project Goes West"'
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Why Projects Fail
tags:
- '#WorkLife'
- '#ProjectManagement'
- '#OrganizationalCulture'
- '#AdrenalineAddiction'
- '#Productivity'
templateKey: post
title: Work Doesn't Go As Expected
---
Work doesn't go as expected.

I worked in a well-organized process for two years at my first job. Although I learned a lot there, I lacked a broader perspective on process contemplation. I moved to a company lacking in process. Compared to my previous company, this new company lacked project management capabilities, and there was considerable uncertainty. In such a situation, I strongly felt the necessity of project management.

The book introduces various stories of organizations, projects, and people. From those who believe that everything runs smoothly only when it's urgent and busy, to those who criticize projects like film critics after completion, there were many relatable points.

---

## Summary

### 1 Addiction to Adrenaline

- Characteristics of organizations addicted to adrenaline:
    - Priorities continuously change.
    - Everything should have been finished by yesterday.
    - There is never enough time.
    - All projects are urgent.
    - Urgent projects keep pouring in.
    - Everyone is always insanely busy.
- The company believes it operates well only when it's frantically busy. They regard urgency as efficient productivity.
- Most organizations addicted to adrenaline have one or more bottlenecks. A hero who makes all the design decisions, a hero who decides all the requirements, or a hero who makes all the architectural decisions creates these bottlenecks.
- Not all deadlines are eternally urgent.
- Adrenaline addiction prevents the release of products that require stability and careful planning. The achievements produced by the addict are not sustainable.

### 2 Run Until You Sweat

- The team swiftly makes decisions about 'who will do what by when' and takes necessary actions promptly.
    - They instinctively understand time constraints.
    - They have great trust in individual and group abilities.
    - They believe in recurring value. They strive to make agile decisions and actions without the burden of achieving perfection each time.
- On the contrary, there are 'talk show' teams.
    - They do nothing, opting for 'on hold', afraid of making mistakes without perfect information.
    - They hang around the campsite, just sharing stories and anecdotes.
    - All paths lead to design.
    - Meetings are used to schedule more meetings.

### 3 Smell of Rotting Fish

- Projects are initially unlikely to be completed on time, yet most involved parties are aware but remain silent.
- The organization is solely focused on success; any expression of doubt leads to penalties. They quip, "This project is different. Prove that it's going to fail." This atmosphere suggests that it's better to 'work hard' and fail than to say goals are impossible.

### 4 Enthusiastic Meetings, Clap Now!

- Expressing high morale results in better work evaluations.
- High morale is a sure indicator of a healthy organization.
- In reality, there's no interest in employees' opinions, even though they might say, "Any feedback is welcome." But no one raises their hand in a meeting.

### 5 Nanny

- A great manager knows the capabilities team members possess.
- A nanny-like manager develops, cultivates team members' abilities to draw better performance from them.
- If any of the following conditions are met, such a nanny might already exist:
    - Easy access to a supervisor without needing separate appointments.
    - Not overtaken by trivial tasks.
    - An open environment where one can honestly share thoughts and learn from each other.
    - The manager considers education and training essential.
    - There is time set aside for discussions like morning coffee breaks or afternoon book discussions to share new ideas.
- In contrast, patterns that pay attention to politics, administration, procedures, and flattery exist. Drawing and adjusting PERT and Gantt charts are more important than communicating with team members.

### 6 Referred Pain

- Referred pain refers to pain felt in a different location from the actual cause. 
- Focus on the issues that disturb the customer most. But trying to address just the referred pain means the project product becomes a massive waste since it doesn't address the real customer needs.
- The effort to find the real cause, the real problem is certainly a more profitable business.

### 7 Tomorrow

- Urgency is an extremely effective catalyst for action.
- Most projects exceed the 30 to 90-day threshold where humans feel a sense of urgency.
- They know people value early project time less than later project time and that the best way to move forward is advancing today, not vaguely into tomorrow.

### 8 Eye Contact

- The reason for distributing work should not be merely money and available resources. The more urgent a project is, the more necessary it is to proceed from one location.
- Building and receiving trust over a distance is difficult. Nuance, confidence, sarcasm or irony, intention, belief, frustration, and insensitivity are hard to detect. Without recognizing these subtle differences, one ends up with crippled communication.

### 9 Mood Ring Management

- Managers assess the project state by the team's enthusiasm, effort, and activity instead of issues, risks, and decisions faced by the project.
- Focusing on the efforts put into the project more than the real state of the project, these managers blur the line between exploration and adjustment. They only know the team is working hard, not necessarily where they are and where they're headed.
- How to report issues accurately:
    - Evaluate the state of deliverables that suit the nature of ongoing tasks to assess project status.
    - Focus on unexpected incidents, issues, and planned changes. Present necessary measures and decisions.
    - The reporting content is individual, non-continuous, and quantitative.
    - Provide a balanced mix of objective information and subjective assessments.

### 10 Zealot

- A team member fervently believes in a particular theory, considering deviations from the principles akin to heresy.
- Most popular methodologies in software engineering have arisen from practitioners’ experiences.
- Zealots ignore warnings and don't read warning pages. Even Kent Beck explicitly outlines XP's limits in his books. However, many XP advocates don't read this part.
- Having zealots in a project can hinder the project. They get embroiled in methodological debates instead of focusing on the substance. No matter how talented, it's better to be without such people.

### 11 Renting Your Soul

- Truly skilled professionals find answers based on the problem at hand. They don't try to fit problems into the tools or methodologies they've previously tried. It's not that they don't know how to apply tools and methods. They lend their souls to techniques instead of selling them. When a new, exciting idea arises, competent professionals evaluate its advantages, compare it with past technologies, and rationally decide the best way to apply it.
- Even if the current technology is sufficient, the possibility that a new technique might offer more advantages is acknowledged.
- Technology advances at an amazing speed. Today's brilliant innovation often becomes yesterday's obsolete debris.
- Individuals and organizations who lend their souls maintain a casual relationship with technology. They embrace new technologies passionately but only as a summer fling, fully utilizing them until the next technology arrives.
- The attitude of distinguishing between problems and solutions represents the first step to becoming a skilled professional who lends their soul.

### 12 Software Development Lemming Cycle

- The process adopted by an organization explicitly states to adjust the standards appropriately. Yet, project teams blindly follow standards they don't adjust.
- Reasons for not adjusting the process include time and effort requirements.
- Sticking to a process removed from actual project needs may start quickly but never finishes quickly.

### 13 No Backup Player

- People are most motivated when clear responsibility is assigned.
- When responsibilities for a task are clearly defined and assigned to one responsible person, individuals recognize and follow their given responsibilities. The consequences from performing the task well are clearly defined. 
- When unexpected tasks arise without a responsible person, they respond flexibly. Familiar with responsibility, individuals willingly take on unexpected tasks.

### 14 Face-to-Face Interaction

- Operating small elite teams is the best way to develop software.
- A manager who successfully leads a distributed team arranges occasional meetings for members to meet each other, increasing chances of a distributed team's success. Without face-to-face interaction, local teams may start belittling other teams, often meaning 'those people' as 'fools'.

### 15 Handing Over The Chisel Doesn't Make An Artist

- The cost of 'using' a tool is far more expensive than the 'purchase' cost of the tool.
- It's a focus on appearances. Using developers seems to be doing something impressive. They are expected to enhance productivity. However, the tool itself doesn't bring any change. Productivity doesn't automatically increase.
- The true importance lies in the skillful use of tools; until Michelangelo picked it up, a chisel was merely a sharp piece of metal.

### 16 Dashboard

- Both strong and weak teams use the dashboard. Yet, an average team usually doesn’t use it.
- What should an effective dashboard be like?
    - It doesn't overwhelm with massive information.
    - It undergoes editorial processes.
    - It provides judgment beyond mere information.
    - It not only reflects the current state but also predicts the future state.
    - It shows trends and tendencies.
    - It provides a framework to objectively compare the subjective judgments of team members.

### 17 Endless Barriers

- Giving endless rights to object prevents any decision from being regarded as final.
- At some point, drawing a clear line requires courage and responsibility from the team leader.
- Until the commander makes decisions and announces them, subordinates should offer honest and professional opinions. Once decisions are made, subordinates should accept and follow them as their own.

### 18 Young Blood and Fossils

- An organization full of young ones is far more vibrant than one full of old fossils.
- Young ones significantly control the 'rhythm of the organization'.
- Organizations don't grow, leading to few opportunities to hire young employees. Such a scenario is often seen in organizations like government agencies, which built large systems a decade ago and now only perform maintenance.
- Organizations hire only experienced individuals. Persisting with this policy dries up younger employees.
- Organizations that thoroughly pursue safety become fossilized.
- Avoiding old fossil organizations is straightforward, hire young people. But not all organizations can do this easily, particularly if there's no vacancy. A willingness to invest in newcomers is also necessary.

### 19 Film Critic

- There are project team members or stakeholders who are like film critics. They believe that merely pointing out that something is wrong or going wrong becomes their contribution to the project. They have no desire to correct the wrongs they point out.
- Criticism is usually presented when production is almost finished or completed, meaning criticism comes when there is no time left to take any action.

### 20 Beat One

- When clear responsibility is assigned, enthusiasm significantly increases.
- When a specific person is assigned to a task, individuals recognize and accept their given responsibilities. The results they can achieve are clearly defined.
- Teams are flexible even with emerging tasks. Familiar with responsibility, they willingly take unexpected tasks.

### 21 Too Quiet Office

- A silent office is a sign that the team has lost its magic.

### 22 Soviet Style

- Despite fulfilling all the features demanded by the customer, the product sinks immediately because customers dislike it.
- Non-functional requirements such as cultural suitability, appearance, and feel are as important as functional requirements. The iPod is a good example.

### 23 Natural Authority

- Competence confers authority. In other words, those with competence are granted authority.

### 24 White Line

- Like the white line drawn on a tennis court, clearly define the project's scope so that there is no controversy.
- While project goals should obviously be set, just looking at the technical documentation doesn't clearly judge the boundaries of a new system.

### 25 Silence is Implied Consent

- Stakeholders fail to distinguish between resigned silence and consent.
- Widespread organizational dissatisfaction often stems from implicit promises.

### 26 Straw Man

- Clients don't know what they want until they see it in front of them. They will say no only after seeing it.
- The straw man model is akin to a bait on requirements. It is a bait offered to elicit an emotional response from the client.
- Excellent analysts never ask, "What do you want?" People hate 100% subjective questions.
- Only a few possess the talent to create something from nothing.
- "I will not answer questions." "Do not bombard me with subjective questions without giving me time to think. Don't demand instant decisions."
- The straw man method is based on the philosophy of giving wrong answers early and frequently to figure out the right one. Today’s problems and solutions are almost impossible to come up with all at once.

### 27 Fake Urgent Schedule

- Everyone has likely experienced it; a death march of pouring resources into an impossible schedule that eventually ends in doom. Appearing as a project of madness propelled by reckless risk-takers with a 'can-do' attitude.
- In reality, daring schedules are merely one method to reduce project costs.
- Fake urgent schedules create fake risks. Projects are bound to fail, but this isn't the worst. The worst is that it prevents enough time and effort from being invested in projects that genuinely provide real benefits, projects worth the risk.

### 28 Time Takes Away Choices

- Decisions made by a manager early in the life cycle impact the project significantly compared to any other decision. For instance, recruitment decisions should ideally be made as soon as possible.
- At the project's end, the chief engineer declares to everyone, "Can't finish this." The project lead starts the meeting writing 'core version release'. "Which features will be included in the core version?" The answer is simple, "All finished features should be included." This eventually results in the formula ‘completion = core’. The core version does not contain real core features.
- An excellent project manager knows when to play a card to dominate time.

### 29 Lewis and Clark

- In the early stages of a project, dispatch a team to explore and investigate possibilities, purely an expedition.
- The project expedition explores the problem area in an abstract sense without caring about who does what task, with what equipment, and how. Instead, it searches for opportunities, future expectations, opportunities, and ideas.
- In uncharted areas, deciding on appropriate actions required exploration.
- This precludes a scenario of wasting valuable resources on unnecessary projects.

### 30 Short Pencil

- Excessive chasing of cost-cutting undermines organizational performance.
- Cutting back once to savor is reasonable.

### 31 Rhythm

- Approaching the summit, each step brings you closer. Don't look at the summit; concentrate on each step. Stick to the rhythm and keep it. - Susan Robertson
- First, the summit is observed, setting project goals. Secondly, plan results within an appropriate time frame, typically a month.
- Teams accustomed to rhythmically releasing useful deliverables agree on a cycle. Some midterm results might not be perfect, but project rhythm alone energizes and stimulates the team. Focusing on products, not perfection. A project with no deliverable is unimaginable.
- Managers should resist the temptation to set rhythms randomly. Productivity shouldn’t be raised by adjusting the beat. Let the team find its rhythm and steadily produce results.
- Even daunting or tedious tasks become easier when done at a certain rhythm. Take on each step thinking of hiking with rhythmic motion.

### 32 Night Shift Forecast

- Ever thought about the possibility of overtime due to uncertainty about the schedule? Maybe you think there'll be no one to blame if the project delays because everyone knows about the overtime?
- Especially younger managers enjoy seeing their teams work overtime. They believe it resulted from their inspiration and motivation implanted in everyone. They see this as evidence of determination. But reality may be much bleaker. Persistent overtime early in projects could indicate team members being trapped in fear.
- Observing consistent overtime from the start suggests the unfortunate prediction that the project outcome won’t be satisfactory. Expect exhaustion, resignations, schedule delays, and degraded product quality.

### 33 Poker Game

- Employees from different departments engage in activities unrelated to work together.
- Organizations become healthier whenever people take off rank badges and socialize.
- Hierarchies don't exist to improve work efficiency. Hierarchies are often unrelated to work processes. Building personal relations with those far in the organizational structure makes conducting important tasks smoothly.

### 34 Misplaced Quality Gate

- Project quality assurance activities amount to merely formal inspections without genuine quality improvement.
- Organizations with misplaced quality gates check only the syntax and form of results, ignoring content. Evidence of misplaced quality gates includes feedback from quality checks that mostly criticize document format.

### 35 Pre-Test Testing

- Testing is more than just testing, and starts even before testing. - Dorothy Graham
- Testing before testing is rational for two reasons: it significantly enhances the effectiveness of future tests and substantially reduces time wasted fixing avoidable errors.
- Late-stage tests do not aid project success. At that point, even finding errors, it's too late. 
- The goal is to uncover as early as possible misunderstandings, differences in opinions, conflicts, and unrealistic expectations.

### 36 Soda House Rules

- Project team members ignore or bypass rules made by outsiders.
- Often, process improvement groups, standards-setting groups, and quality departments specify work processes and methods. They also determine tools for the team and standards for results. Usually, they are outsiders uninformed about the work they are setting standards for.
- Successful projects have some degree of order. There are rules and processes. But, the world envisioned by rule-makers should somewhat align with the world lived by rule-followers.

### 37 Say It, Then Write It

- Make decisions through conversation and immediately communicate them in writing.
- Following a decision, it's crucial to clearly and accurately inform everyone who will be impacted.

### 38 Project Prostitute

- If you accept every request that comes, your team's speed will slow, resulting eventually in decreased efficiency.
- To avoid criticism, you feel compelled to say “yes” to every request. Each time you say “yes”, it reduces project speed.
- If managers permit this pattern, projects face serious and unnecessary risks.

### 39 Beam

- A team leader excels in every direction.
- Being too perfect a leader and manager can deprive team members of opportunities to cultivate leadership or management skills. Consequently, they fail to raise team members to leadership roles. 
- This model is not scalable.

### 40 Dressing Reason

- Organizations that consider themselves open generally feel proud of being open.
- Information overload results in lack of attention.
- Being overwhelmed by information usually stems from anxiety; an underlying fear of missing out on information known to others. Succumbing to this fear makes one like a child at their first buffet, piling delicious-looking food on a plate in case of missing a chance to taste it. It’s better to first recognize the size of one’s own informational plate. This is part of growing.

### 41 Peer Evaluation

- Granting team members opportunities to participate in hiring decisions benefits everyone.
- Knowing the new member, most of the team recognizes and accepts the new hire.
- Applicants can make wiser decisions about joining a team.
- The team evaluates technical skills, sparing managers from guessing applicants' abilities.
- While interviewing, team members learn from each other, formulating criteria and questions for the applicant. Managers gain a deeper understanding of the way their team members think.

### 42 Snorkeling and Scuba Diving

- Know the scope of exploration necessary to understand a problem and achieve goals.
- Engage in both wide and extensive exploration and detailed, selective exploration simultaneously.

### 43 Always the Damn Interface

- Without a thorough understanding at the start, clearly defining interfaces for direct implementation is challenging. Skipping interface definition is ill-advised. Instead, use the best knowledge to define it.

### 44 Blue Zones

- It's good to have at least one team member who habitually disregards authority.
- They’d rather watch a project fail than overstep their duties.
- Unquestioning obedience may actually be harmful.

### 45 News Laundering

- Bad news isn't accurately conveyed as it travels up the organizational ladder.
- Many decisions made inadequately due to poor information flow resulted in disasters. The Challenger shuttle incident is one.
- To avoid being seen as complainers or cowards, team members stay silent until the disaster's inevitability becomes clear.
- How can organizations improve accurately reporting bad news? Often, the key lies in a manager's hands. Listen to negative news and then hurry to seek solutions. The cause follows that.

### 46 Slow Truth Disclosure

- The corporate culture makes revealing uncomfortable truths difficult.
- The reasons for slowly telling the truth:
  - The person who raised the issue ends up holding responsibility.
  - They get labeled as complainers for not answering difficult problems.
- They wait until someone raises a bigger issue so that their issue digresses unnoticed.

### 47 Scrimmage

- After completing any development stage, run test cases and conduct simple releases reviews.
- Some release criteria can be challenging to evaluate meaningfully at the start. Still, even assessments marked simply as undecided, if they ask, "Excuse me, when did you plan to conduct this performance test?" have significant value.

### 48 Musicians

- It is surprising how many musicians you find in IT organizations.

### 49 Reporter

- A reporter is a project manager who separates the goal of project success from the goal of precise reporting.
- Think of a reporter broadcasting a plane crash. The reporter responsibly announces the when, where, and how of a crash without feeling guilty for failing to prevent it.
- Accurate reports are merely a means to achieve the end goal, never the end goal itself.

### 50 Empty Seat

- There's no one overseeing the overall usability of the project.

### 51 My Cousin Vinny

- Team members evaluate, improve ideas, and engage in passionate but benign debates.
- Conversations and debates are necessary for good conclusions.
- Team members debating more effective solutions respect each other. Otherwise, productive debates aren't possible. Everyone recognizes that critiques and analyses of ideas aren't attacks on them personally but efforts to make the best product using the best approach.

### 52 Feature Soup

- The product offers countless individual features but most don't relate to real problems.
- Eventually, everyone, marketing, customers, and developers, can no longer understand whether all pieces fit together and the overall picture satisfies business goals.
- The stew becomes more complex as project stakeholders view product requirements from different perspectives.
- Everyone naturally thinks their requirements are the most important. This department or that department requests particular features, as do these or those customers. They don't consider the product's overall consistency. It's only natural, as ensuring consistency is the responsibility of project analysts.
- Another culprit behind feature soup is designers. Designers add new features without understanding existing ones. They must always ask themselves, "Does the new feature fit into the existing product scope?" "Do they overlap or cause confusion with existing functions?"
- Organizations avoiding feature soup share common traits:
  1. Clearly define project goals and non-goals as early as possible.
  2. Declare the project scope and continually update it.
  3. Firmly reject requirements irrelevant to specified goals and outside project scope.
  4. New requirements follow change control procedures approved by stakeholders and traceable, evaluated in terms of project goals.
- Discipline and control are essential for avoiding feature soup. Remember that those requesting fragmented features aren't the ones falling into the soup; it's the developers themselves.

### 53 Data Quality

- Data quality is a mess, yet the company improves the data processing software.

### 54 Ben

- Some individuals love work more than money because the work environment is so good, the project is so fun, and the product is awesome.
- Ben works at a software company. Ben loves his work, feels enthusiastic and entertained. He definitely doesn't work for money. Though welcoming a raise or bonus, money isn't his only motivation. In fact, he loves what he does more than the organization itself; he doesn't leave the company for better pay.
- Displaying a confidently content demeanor and calm enjoyment, that's Ben.
- Ben is easy to manage but also easy to mismanage. When a subordinate leaves, failing to hire a replacement, thinking to overload work on Ben because he loves it, leads to Ben getting overwhelmed, eventually hating the work and leaves the team. That means losing the best worker.
- Ben quickly finds a job again, but the manager finds it hard to find someone like Ben.

### 55 Polite Organization

- Raising questions about ideas is seen as rude.
- Criticism is avoided. Reviews always end with "Well done, very well!"
- A polite organization has only face-saving, without any real face. So members wear masks all day.

### 56 Commitment

- For a software project to succeed, developers must focus on one project at a time.
- Doing two things at once halves one's IQ. This is serious; an IQ of 40 makes a significant difference.
- Organizations understanding the relationship between context switching and productivity encourage focus on a single project, preventing developers from engaging in multiple projects simultaneously.

### 57 No Crying in Baseball

- People express emotions because they sincerely care about the work.

### 58 Violent Escape

- Regard justified conflict merely as 'communication failure' – a common excuse.
- Only when acknowledging conflict as a natural, highly professional phenomenon do the parties shift focus from clinging to the 'improvement of communication' myth to 'conflict resolution techniques'.

### 59 Release On Time Every Time

- Throwing people at a delayed software project only slows it further.
- Feature cuts are only effective when removing features yet to be developed. Feature cuts become less effective later in the project.
- If dedicated to releasing products exactly on time, another remaining option is lowering release quality standards.

### 60 Food

- The camaraderie from eating together enables meetings to progress more smoothly.

### 61 Orphan Outputs

- Outputs created without clear and proven requirements, effectively orphaned outputs. Orphan outputs have no benefit.

### 62 Hidden Beauty

- The functional aspect may be the same, but everyone has differing aesthetic perspectives. Beauty arises not from deliberately added ornamentation but as a by-product of ingeniously implementing the process.

### 63 I Don't Know

- It's acceptable for an organization to foster a culture where saying, "I don't know," is okay.
- Some organizations deem "I don't know" as a sign of cowardice.
- But we really do know. We’re aware we don’t know everything and never have.

### 64 The Kids of Lake Wobegon

- Managers misjudge the distinction between competent and incompetent team members, rating them similarly.
- By insinuating the mid-tier seems bigger than it is, managers deceive their middle-tier employees.
- Top-tier team members feel unrecognized and unrewarded when not rated the highest.
- In truth, only the genuinely average employees know the truth.

### 65 Collaborative Learning

- To effectively specify products or services, requirement gatherers must learn about the customers' work.
- Bi-directional collaborative learning between makers and customers is essential.
- Acknowledging the necessity of learning from each other is often the hardest part.

### 66 Seelenverwandtschaft

- Teams that skip even the most fundamental development rules exist within organizations.
- Such teams hate meetings, love designing, and jump into implementation early in development. They discard much code and re-write it rapidly, demonstrating instantly and re-implementing. This process is carried out at lightning speed.
- Though appearing reckless, one certainty is that they produce actual progress surprisingly rapidly.
- True guerilla teams are certainly suited for developing the first version of a new product. Occasionally, they are suitable for producing the second version.
- Depending on how the team is led, they may be amazingly productive or destructively so.
- Many fake guerrilla teams exist, but true guerrilla teams are rare.

### 67 Cross Screw

- Despite being a great idea, it unexpectedly doesn't receive immediate recognition.
- Thomas Edison and other top inventors of our times aren't famous due to one single invention. They gained fame for continually proposing new ideas. Those pushing a single idea are mere agitators, while those continually introducing multiple ideas are true innovators.

### 68 Predicting Innovation

- Balance the need for the team to predict a schedule with the need to seek innovation.
- Managers strive to provide time for the team to explore, explore, learn, and solve, while simultaneously providing the company and customers with a reasoned accuracy about project completion times. 
- Handing optimistic schedules too soon to the company and customers makes it difficult for teams to deliver the right product. On the other hand, revealing project schedules too late makes managers look incompetent.
- Projects need innovation. However, they also need prediction. Emphasizing one too much leads to dysfunction.

### 69 Dried Monster

- In some organizations, developers are kings; in others, they're pawns.
- Organizations where managers or sales are kings start from the belief that developers are a rich resource meaning any developer hired makes no difference.
- Meanwhile, companies believing their product or service quality and innovation differentiates them from competitors know the tremendous disparity in talent and productivity between top 10% developers and average ones.
- Therefore, they labor to recruit the most talented developers, resulting in a culture where developers are kings.
- Of course, when the culture reaches extremes where developers in their optimal work patterns neglect to consider impacts of their decisions, projects fall into trouble. QA organizations face overwhelming deadlines with workloads peaking as developers optimized to complete individual tasks, leaving everything to the last minute resulting in perfect storms.
- If you're in a company treating developers as pawns, know that many others exist who treat you with the respect you deserve.

### 70 Brownian Motion

- Deploy individuals into a project before clearly establishing vision reduces productivity.
- With too many people involved in planning, the outcome becomes unfocused and conflicting.
- Clear vision typically comes from one person or a small group.

### 71 Loud and Clear

- Repeatedly, clearly articulate project goals.
- Project goals are the highest-level expression of project requirements and constraints.
- Even in situations of feature reduction, decisions should be based on project goals.
- Continuously reminding everyone of the goals dramatically transforms projects and products.

### 72 Safety Valve

- Incorporate routine team activities designed to alleviate work tension.
- Managers should neither interfere with nor encourage such activities. That time is for the team to take a break—it’s up to the team to determine how best to utilize it.

### 73 Babel Tower

- We expect others to understand us.
- Even when sharing the same language, organizations still experience misunderstandings.
- Projects need a living language.
- Shared language development efforts from a team rarely surface externally.

### 74 Unexpected Reactions

- After over six weeks of extra work including weekends, a product is finally launched, and each team member receives a restaurant gift card. Even if it's just a token of appreciation, rewards from organizations to individuals or teams will always have side effects in some way.
- Attempting to sustain unsustainable behaviors like overtime or overwork through rewards and prizes, recipients may actually feel resentment and demoralization.

### 75 Refrigerator Door

- Team members routinely disclose their work output to everyone.

### 76 The Sun Will Rise Tomorrow

- Managers optimistically believe future average work pace will improve over past average work pace.
- Various incidents occurred, all viewed as one-time events. There were hitches, a sudden family bereavement, and the sales team requested help.
- They plan with the assumption that the probability of future accidents is 0.

### 77 Double Trouble

- Stakeholders verbally promise support yet ruin projects by constantly adding features.
- Even teams planning many iterations cannot entirely guard against such unfair play.

### 78 Time for Changes

- Opportunities to change project scope occur exclusively at specific times, usually after concluding one iteration and entering the next.
- Postponing all changes till after a lengthy iteration isn't wise, nor, at times, feasible.
- To minimize the chaos from scope changes, iterations lasting 2 to 6 weeks are ideal.

### 79 Print Shop

- Organizations measure project progress by the weight and volume of written documents—this is known as print-Shop pattern.
- Document contributions to project goals are overlooked.

### 80 Offshore Development Trap

- Lured by cheap labor, management shifts some development overseas, complicating communication between development departments.
- To control complexity, systems should be divided into several components and aim to reduce each component's interface complexity to the maximum extent. The same applies to work.

### 81 Operations Room

- The operations room stems from recognition that frequent interactions are vital for project success. Team cohesion increases, demonstrating the company's strong support.
- Securing space to set up an operations room doesn’t automatically bring about effectiveness. Projects should choose this path themselves for a magical operations room to be possible.

### 82 What's That Smell?

- People belonging to organizations fail to detect its rise and fall.

### 83 Forgotten Lessons

- Realizing mistakes, the teams still repeat the same ones.
- Project postmortems end as mere grievances.
- Through a postmortem, it often turns out that major issues arise from problems not strictly internal to the project.
- For example, forced staff shortages or tight schedules. Such problems lie outside team control, and solutions, if any, fall outside team capabilities.
- Brave companies profit from postmortem analyses. These organizations are inspiring to work for. Opportunities to enact change are cherished as a core organizational value.

### 84 Nobility in Half-Baked Ideas

- Progress in an atmosphere where people hesitate to propose half-baked ideas is slow.
- Even half-baked ideas have a role in projects.

### 85 Leakage

- Time and money easily 'leak' from carefully managed categories to loosely managed ones.
- Attention is focused only on tasks using nearly all resources or nearing deadlines, leading to leaks elsewhere.
- They hand off implementation to the testing phase.
- Most people understand the time value of money but fail to comprehend the monetary value of time.

### 86 Template Zombies

- The team merely fills out templates, not thinking or deliberating on what's required for the release.
- Some teams are obsessed with adhering to standards for documents; this is called template-zombie. They emphasize filling every item, focusing on format.
- Not adding something because it doesn't fit the template might already indicate arrival in the template-zombie world.