---
date: 2019-03-16
description: Reflections after reading "The Art of Thinking" by Robert Root-Bernstein & Michele Root-Bernstein
image: /img/book/whole-man.jpg
keywords: The Art of Thinking, Robert Root-Bernstein, Michele Root-Bernstein, Park Jong-seong
tags:
- '#ThoughtsOnThinking'
- '#TorqueEquation'
- '#TheoryAndReality'
- '#SpecializationAndFragmentationOfKnowledge'
- '#ObservationAndThinking'
templateKey: post
title: Thoughts on Thinking
---

> Knowing the torque equation but not realizing that when you open the door, the farther you push from the hinges, the easier the door opens. This is when you can say you've seen the 'illusion' of the torque equation. His 'illusion' wasn't connected to 'reality.'

Knowing theory only superficially is no different from having a fantasy detached from reality. To integrate theory and reality, one must repeatedly go back and forth between theoretical acquisition and real-world application.

## Summary

- The worst scientist is one who is not an artist, and the worst artist is one who is not a scientist. - Physicist Armand Trousseau
- Due to specialization, knowledge has become fragmented. We are taking in too much information without fully understanding its origins, meanings, or how to use it effectively.
- Not understanding something means not knowing how to apply it practically.
- Picasso told his friend, "Until I choose the color I want to use, I don't know what I'm going to paint on the canvas. Every time I paint, I feel like I'm taking a leap into the air. I can't tell if I'll land properly. It's only much later that I can predict somewhat accurately how my work will turn out."
- If you can't imagine what doesn't exist, you can't create anything new, and if you can't create your own world, you'll have to remain in the world described by others. - Paul Hogan
- Knowing the torque equation but not realizing that when you open the door, the farther you push from the hinges, the easier the door opens. This is when you can say you've seen the 'illusion' of the torque equation. His 'illusion' wasn't connected to 'reality.'
- Music teaches us to distinguish between 'just listening' and 'listening attentively.' - Composer Igor Stravinsky
- Pythagoras was the first to realize the relationship between sound pitch by attentively listening to the sound of a blacksmith's hammering.
- Observation is a form of thinking, and thinking is a form of observation. Ultimately, the purpose of observation is to connect sensory experiences as closely as possible to intellectual awareness.
- To discover 'latent things,' you must develop the patience and perseverance to make new observations every day. If the goal of our education is to create lifelong learners, what better training is there than honing observation skills?
- Abstraction does not replicate the entire object but highlights one or two less conspicuous characteristics.
- According to Picasso, "To reach abstraction, you must always start from the concrete reality. Only by starting with something substantial can you eventually eliminate traces of reality."
- If a force pulls an apple to the ground, it could potentially extend upwards and even pull the moon, leading to an 'analogy.' - Isaac Newton
- Thinking is feeling, and feeling is thinking.
- Karl Popper believes, "I find that the most useful way for a person to gain new understanding is through 'empathetic intuition' or 'empathy.' Dive into the problem and become a part of it."
- "But do you really know what it 'feels' like to be a piston in an engine?"
- "Today, people are getting used only to staring at computer screens, without thinking about touching real metal. This kind of attitude will bring catastrophe in the future."
- Be a whole person, not just an expert.