---
date: 2024-01-21 06:53:37.382000+00:00
description: Reading Kim Do-young's 'The Planner's Reading'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#SurvivalSwimming'
- '#ReadingHabit'
- '#Collection'
- '#Inspiration'
- '#TheCityOfBooksParis'
templateKey: post
title: Survival Swimming
---
Life requires planning. Here, planning encompasses direction, message, structuring, and everything else. In a broad sense, everyone is a planner. The author compares reading to ‘survival swimming.’ I agree. I felt the same way. Starting work, I needed a way to grow, and that way was reading.

Observing other people's reading habits made me somewhat anxious. I resolved to read books more three-dimensionally. I reflected on whether I was reading fragmentarily or just busy reading. Being able to discuss various topics and unravel them appropriately and entertainingly will add great meaning to life.

# Collection

* After reading a book, I like to leave brief notes summarizing the reasons and points I found good. Conversely, I often summarize my reasons for works that lacked impact or were disappointing, contrary to my expectations.
* “So, how are you going to unravel it?” That’s right. I believe inspiration is not about ‘coming up with’ but about ‘unraveling.’ Novelist Jang Kang-myung said, “All inspiration comes in an incomplete form.” Advertising executive Park Woong-hyun also emphasized, “Don’t try to find the right answer; instead, focus on choosing something and then making it right.”
* “Where do you mainly get your inspiration from?” “Well, I don’t know where I get it from, but I certainly know when I get it.” “…?” “Deadline.”
  * I believe that my thinking power deepens when I am placed in a constrained environment. This is actually proven by various studies, where children playing with colorful crayons in kindergarten produced more creative drawings when only allowed to use three colors.
* I had my own philosophy about books and was not hesitant to express it. Before arriving in Paris, I had fantasies that both matched and differed from the reality, but the fact that books existed everywhere led me to a new fantasy. Therefore, in this writing, I want to introduce stories from French people who made me remember Paris as the city of books.
  * “The only way to respond to cowardly violence is to show them that they can't destroy our daily lives. To do that, we just need to do things as we always have. Look, Parisians are doing that. They're finding, reading, and loving books just like they used to.”
* This all started when Japanese actor Ijuin Hikaru used it for the first time on his radio show. He aired a segment on “things any 8th grader might do,” collecting stories from listeners, which became the origin. After that, it gained widespread use and soon landed in Korea during the Cyworld craze.
* In positive terms, it's experience; in slang, it’s referred to as seasoned experience, and as you accumulate it, it's incredibly difficult to relax those shoulders. I jokingly package this as “the dependents of creativity,” with the burden of having to show something new, the realism of not going too far beyond the realm of understanding, and the self-censorship that starts imagining the feedback that will come after several review processes.