---
date: 2019-06-19
description: Read Lee Won-seok's "How to Write a Book Review"
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Lee Won-seok, How to Write a Book Review, Book Review
tags:
- '#WritingBookReviews'
- '#Writing'
- '#BookReview'
- '#ReadingHabit'
templateKey: post
title: How to Write a Book Review
---
I wondered what the writings I posted on my blog were. Are they summaries? Book reviews? Does it even matter to distinguish between them? For me, writing was what mattered. Amidst this, I read the book titled 'How to Write a Book Review.'

Even a single sentence that resonates with me is worth the entire book. I am a blind collector of sentences. I don't put much effort into deeply understanding them. My thought was to write something based on whatever I felt after reading.

It might be a good idea to clarify whether my writing is an emotional and introspective book report or a logical and extroverted book review. If it's a book review, consider why the book has its title, whether it is backed by sufficient knowledge and logic, and if it holds context and meaning. Try to write persuasive and assertive pieces accurately identifying the core and using my own standards and perspectives.

I reflected on my writing standards. It's time to go beyond summarizing and write with my own standards and perspectives to assert and persuade. I thought I should read a lot without pressure. I reflect on whether I was just focusing on the act of reading. There's no need to tirelessly read every book and diligently write a book review.

Now I want to delve deeper into understanding and write with more power.