---
date: 2017-08-07
description: Thoughts on Uri Bram's "Thinking Statistically"
image: /img/book/think-statistically.jpeg
tags:
- '#Statistics'
- '#SelectionBias'
- '#Endogeneity'
- '#BayesTheorem'
- '#ConditionalProbability'
templateKey: post
title: Selection Bias, Endogeneity, and Bayes' Theorem
---
The book explains three core concepts of statistics using everyday examples: selection bias, endogeneity, and Bayes' theorem.

When perceiving the world, we experience parts of it and conceptualize them, a process that involves inference. If the samples we perceive are biased, the inferences drawn from them are likely to be incorrect. In statistics, this issue is called selection bias. It made me think about how selection bias affects my self-awareness. Often, the sample of opinions I receive about myself is highly biased.

Endogeneity is defined as "being determined or originated within the system." Like the famous saying "correlation does not imply causation," an apparent correlation posing as causation is a type of endogeneity problem. This is the error of perceiving A and B as causally related just because C is the common cause of both. Another issue of endogeneity involves reversing the cause and effect.

Conditional probability refers to calculating the likelihood of X occurring given that Y has occurred, such as “What is the probability that your partner is cheating if they’re out drinking with someone of the opposite sex at 10 PM?” Bayes' theorem focuses on determining the probability of a particular hypothesis (A) in light of actual data or evidence (B). It suggests examining alternative hypotheses to calculate such probabilities. Sherlock Holmes said, "When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth." This means that even if a hypothesis seems highly improbable, its likelihood can significantly increase when considering specific evidence.