---
date: 2020-08-17 11:46:15.489000+00:00
description: Reflections on Tools of Titans by Tim Ferriss
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#ToolsOfTitans'
- '#TimFerriss'
- '#SecretsOfSuccess'
- '#OrganizingThoughts'
- '#UnleashingCreativity'
templateKey: post
title: Insights and Routines of Successful People
---

“**Tools of Titans**” is a book by Tim Ferriss that captures the strategies, habits, and tools of globally successful individuals, the "titans." Tim Ferriss synthesized the success secrets of various figures—entrepreneurs, athletes, artists, and thought leaders—interviewed on his podcast “The Tim Ferriss Show” into this book.
- Organizing thoughts is crucial. I aim to write mornings and evenings for this purpose. I've realized systems and tools are essential for implementation. This book reinforced my commitment, and in August, I wrote quite a bit both morning and evening. Writing is a system; mere willpower doesn't advance thoughts.
- Being moderately good in two fields rather than excelling in one can make you unique.
- Time is scarce, but there's no need to cling to efficiency. Create gaps in your schedule and unleash creativity.
- Find something you deem important and focus on it for 2-3 consecutive hours a day. Happiness is a target that shouldn't be forgotten.
- Embrace something slightly daunting yet worth risking your life for.
- Be free to generate ideas profusely.

## Summary

- “The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t create a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t invent a social network. If you’re merely imitating them, you haven’t learned anything from them.”
- Do you have something worth risking your life for? If so, seek questions, not answers. This way, you discover unique ideas, opportunities, and approaches that few agree with. Starting there leads to unexpected results.
    - Firstly, 'What problems do I ponder daily that no one seems to have solved?'
    - Secondly, 'What’s a brilliant idea for a company no one has started yet?'
- Seth said, “People who struggle to come up with good ideas often don’t think of mediocre ones either. Whereas those with many good ideas have absurd and ridiculous ideas even more so. Amidst endless absurd ideas, a few good ones are bound to surface.”
    - James strongly recommends the practice of jotting down 10 ideas each morning in a notebook to develop the 'idea muscle' and boost creative confidence. The subject of ideas doesn’t matter; consistent practice does.
    - "If you can’t come up with 10 ideas, think of 20. We pressure ourselves to generate perfect ideas. Perfectionism is the 'enemy' of the idea muscle. Our brains instinctively block ideas deemed embarrassing or painful to protect us. Override this defense by forcing the brain to conceive ludicrous ideas.”
- “Life involves two patterns: offensive and defensive living. If you don’t wish to lose money, live defensively; if you want to earn, live offensively. Defensive living entrusts life to others. Offensive living involves driving the conditions of your own life. Choose either, but note that scoring goals and making money are typically achieved in offensive play.”
- While forming strong opinions and confidence, we must maintain calm and composure as unpredictable things frequently occur. The titans I met for this book also emphasized the importance of a 'calm demeanor.'
- The conclusion remains clear: 'Superheroes don’t exist.' Only people occasionally living heroically and at other times ordinarily.
- “Don’t disappear just because no one is looking. Wait until they raise their heads and notice you. If you don’t exit, eventually someone will see you.”
- From the interview with Scott Adams, it’s clear today’s success diverges from the 'expert’ path. To excel as a photographer, storytelling skills outweigh photographic skills. Writing, speaking, communication, and presentation abilities are also vital. Chase noted, “I often shoot action sports photography, but I pay much attention to fashion, breakdancing, and myriad cultural elements too. I’ve produced TV programs, shot commercials, conducted ad campaigns, founded a startup, and created the first iPhone app for social network image sharing. In the past, I might have been criticized for not mastering anything. Yet, due to engaging in all these ventures, I discovered they ultimately convey success clues to each other.”
- 'Success doesn’t need to be complicated. It merely starts with making 1,000 people extremely happy.'
- Peter has ‘28 Rules’ guiding his successful life. Among them, the ones I and the book’s titans favor include:

    Rule 2. When possible, choose both.

    Rule 3. Multiple projects lead to multiple successes.

    Rule 6. Compromise only if you add further demands.

    Rule 7. Change the rules if you can’t win.

    Rule 8. Disregard the rules if you can't change them.

    Rule 11. "No" simply means start one level higher.

    Rule 13. When in doubt, think.

    Rule 16. The faster you move, the slower time flows allowing for a longer life.

    Rule 17. The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself.

    Rule 19. You reap what you incentivize.

    Rule 22. A breakthrough was an eccentric idea until the day before.

    Rule 26. If you can't measure it, you can't improve it.

- Peter advises young people visiting him for insights on 'entrepreneurial spirit' (whom he labels as 'entrepreneurial hopefuls') as follows: “First, go to the counter and order coffee. If you don’t drink coffee, order any tea. If you don’t drink tea, order water. After ordering a drink, ask for a 10% discount.” He always proposes this ‘discount’ challenge to aspiring entrepreneurs and those meeting him without much difficulty. Why? He answered, “It may seem foolish, but it's vital. If you want to succeed in business or life, you must constantly ask people for things and live daringly.”
- “Great individuals are always ready to comply, as their leadership abilities can be proven at any time.”
- His biggest fear was being potentially trapped in a life he didn't want. He overcame this fear by gaining 'the courage to accept an undesired life to pursue a desired dream life.'
    - Kevin also shared wisdom on 'finding desired work and life.' "The thought that causes slight fear, anxiety, and thrill—that is your desire. The venture making you think, 'Wow, could this totally ruin my life if it fails?'—that’s your sought-after adventure."
    - “The notion of being brave or cowardly is untrue. We all feel fear, yet manage to act courageously.”
- “Leading a life as a gladiator in the arena guarantees one thing: you’ll be beaten up. Knowing you'll be battered yet boldly charging in is the one life we should have. The profound courage to change life emerges when exposing and enduring 'vulnerabilities' like ‘getting battered.’ We should ask two questions daily: 'Did I dare boldly today?' 'What vulnerabilities did I expose and endure to choose courage over comfort?'”
- Define the worst-case scenario in detail.
- The titans I met for this book would say, “I believe you must take high risks to succeed. It’s true. Yet once deciding to embrace high risk and dive boldly, there isn’t that much risk. Instead, you encounter life-changing potential, various ‘possibilities.’ Therefore, life isn’t determined by what risks you choose, but by what possibilities you seize and whether you’re missing greater ones.”
- What have you set aside indefinitely, waiting for the right moment? I assure you, there is no ‘perfect timing.’
- How could writing become easier? Would reading books on writing by masters help? I don’t recommend most of them, except for a few. I spent considerable time reading such books only to realize they weren’t very helpful. The greatest assistance and solace come from knowing that even those who seem to have overcome all obstacles and risen to the top, like the immortal great writers, struggle daily in the mire just like me. The core is 'will.' Being a writer isn’t about proficiency but the 'will' to write nonetheless. If you don’t abandon will, you’ll eventually find loose threads that unravel barriers.
- Josh doesn't use social media. Aside from my podcast, he doesn’t do interviews. He avoids almost all meeting proposals and calls, practicing a life maximizing output by minimizing input. He told me, “I try to create space in all aspects of my life to carve out a creative space.”
- “Author Hemingway ended his workday in the middle of an excellent flow, at the midpoint of a paragraph he felt was going well. So he could continue that good flow next time. I try to live like Hemingway.”
- When there's seemingly no way, just work hard.
- Maria has a tattoo on her arm. It’s a target with the phrase, “What to focus on” inscribed. Inside the circular target, it says “Happiness.” She explained the tattoo. “To remind myself not to forget what I realized after overcoming the hardest times. Begin each day by asking ‘What should I focus on for happiness?’ and you’ll increasingly recognize the astounding truth of this simple sentence.”
- Regardless of your choice, nobody finds things easy or untroubled. But accepting that, those who strive to make things less troublesome and arduous succeed, whereas those who can’t accept and feel tormented simply fail. Maria recalls Henry David Thoreau’s diary from March 1842 during tough times for strength. “Thoreau said, ‘The most efficient worker doesn’t fill the day with chores and works surrounded by ease and leisure. Those who work a lot don’t work hard.'”
- No matter how fancy a watch is, no one has enough time. For wisdom in short livings, Kevin first advises against being trapped in 'productivity.' "Productivity is for robots. All human time should be filled with questioning, creativity, and experiencing."
- These words surprisingly resonated with me. To elevate free will and increase performance, a consistent rule is needed. Continually pondering, ‘What should I do now?’ or ‘What should I eat for breakfast?’ under the guise of making free choices can make one feel lethargic. Simple and regular plans provide more freedom and achievement. Discipline and control magnify autonomy and freedom. Jocko adds, “Whether it’s economic freedom, more free time, or freedom from illness, whatever freedom you want in life, discipline is the only path.”
- Focusing on the most important task for 2–3 hours per day can lead to a pretty good day. It’s perfect for overcoming a slump too. Note that you shouldn’t gather 120–180 minutes from slices of 10 minutes here and there. Securing 2–3 hours for one thing allows for heroic days when you achieve remarkable outcomes with speed. Titans unanimously agree that concentrating on one thing for 2-3 hours leaves a mark of one performance for the day.
- “I didn’t venture out to compete. I went out to win. I’m not ordinary-looking, so I didn’t bother to compete for fixed roles. Instead, I waited for someone to discover me. While everyone was losing weight and trying to appear as blond Adonises, my winning strategy was not emulating them. My task was simply enduring. Staying conspicuous to producers while eating popcorn was my strategy.”