---
date: 2018-02-24
description: Reflections on 'The Mythical Man-Month' by Frederick Brooks
image: /img/book/code.jpg
keywords: The Mythical Man Month, The Mythical Man-Month, Software Engineering, No Silver Bullet
tags:
  - "#SoftwareEngineering"
  - "#Programming"
  - "#Myth"
  - "#SoftwareMyths"
  - "#BookReview"
templateKey: post
title: Software Fantasies and Myths
---

> "I bought my boss two copies of The Mythical Man Month so that he could read it twice as fast." - <a href="https://twitter.com/rkoutnik">@rkoutnik</a>

We live in an era where we don't understand the magical principles of software, but we naturally accept its results.  

> "The programmer’s work has the nearest affinity to a poet — it is a pure product of thought. He builds castles made of air in thin air using the power of imagination. (...) However, unlike a poet’s lines, a program is grounded in reality in that it produces tangible results."

Programming is quite peculiar in that it conceptualizes the physical reality and then recreates a physical result from that concept. However, software is more abstract—more so than components like rebar and concrete used in construction. Thus, software engineering is different from traditional engineering. These differences, however, lead to myths, misunderstandings, and illusions.

> "We sometimes hear news that a program created by two people in a renovated garage outperformed the results of a large team. Programmers are naturally inclined to believe this kind of story, as they know they can write code faster than teams that produce 1,000 lines a year. So, why haven't all industry programming teams been replaced by duos? We need to focus on 'what' is being created here." <i>4 page</i>

I read various thoughts related to software engineering, such as "Adding more manpower to a late project can make it even later," and "Projects ruined due to time shortage are more than those combined for other reasons."