---
date: 2024-05-27 01:01:21.544000+00:00
description: After reading Kim Ae-ran’s "Outside is Summer"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
  - "#summer"
  - "#escapeFromDailyLife"
  - "#NoryangjinCouple"
  - "#DogEuthanasia"
  - "#ChildrenCruelty"
templateKey: post
title: A Lonely Summer
---

Winter feels warm to me. Rather, the hot summer feels lonely. Is it because summer is the longest? Or because I was born in the summer? In any case, when summer comes and goes, I find myself reflecting on the past.

## Where Would You Like to Go

When traveling abroad, I have a desire to temporarily escape daily life and act like I’m in a play. It's like feeling a stage is set to perform myself differently. Hence, it seems like a time when I am more honest with myself and hesitate about what I pursue. These overlapping and subtle connections. 

## Across the Street

A couple met in Noryangjin. The woman who neatly folds towels, and the man who wants to roll them up. The woman who passed the exam and became part of society, and the man who failed to adapt to his company and secretly prepares for another exam. The man drinks until dawn before Christmas and the next day, returns to Noryangjin with the woman to eat expensive sashimi. 500,000 won from emceeing a friend's wedding, and 300,000 won worth of sashimi. A Christmas day eating sashimi in Noryangjin. The couple met in Noryangjin head in different directions.

## No Chanseong and Evan

He earned money to pay for the euthanasia of his dog, but the temptation of that money was immense. A story of children who had too much hesitation and temptation with the money they saved to take a sick pet to the vet. What is forgiveness, do we pretend it never happened?

## Covering Hands

The child who was thought to be timid is not as innocent as assumed. After all, every bad person in the world is somebody's child. Young children got into an argument with an elderly person collecting waste paper. The children hurt the old man, and he died. A child of a similar age, Jae-yi, witnesses the scene. Jae-yi's mother worries about whether the child would get hurt or be wrongfully blamed. A black box captures the whole incident, and Jae-yi's face spreads across the internet. Jae-yi’s mother watches this video closely and sees Jae-yi covering her mouth with her hand as the old man is bullied. She wonders if behind Jae-yi’s covered hand, there is not a scream but a smile.

## Beginning of Winter

A narrowing life. Yet, one that must be braved through. A story of a day of wallpapering. After marriage, they conceived a child following fertility treatment and multiple moves, managed to buy a house that was a bargain in a foreclosure auction. The wallpaper of the kitchen in this ragged house claimed beauty with all its might. Painted in olive not to go out of style. Just when they were starting to settle, their son dies in a kindergarten car accident. In their helplessness, the wallpaper gets stained with plum extract. They replace the wallpaper, and in doing so, discover drawings by their dead child on the wall. Is this how life chokes one up? About enduring a tiring life. From moving into this house in spring until the winter breeze blows. This couple learns that seasons accumulate into life.

## The Utility of Scenery

A happy moment captured in a photo vanishes instantly. The scenery ceases to remain scenery. The charm of a landscape is in the moment of looking at it. And our lives become a part of passing scenery, not a magnificent landscape. He fails to become a professor and becomes the scenery, while his father becomes a poor scenery for him.

He sends his mother on a 60th birthday trip with money saved from teaching university lectures. His father, who left the family for an affair, comes to borrow money. He takes the fall for an intoxicated Dean Gwak’s driving. Soon after, he applies for a professor position at the college. During this process, Dean Gwak strongly opposes him during the review process, leading to his rejection. Though he thinks he's become quite adept at adulthood, typical difficulties and challenges still come his way. The protagonist imagines he would use a fountain pen elegantly, but increasingly finds himself signing with a rolling Monami pen picked up from the ground.

## Final Notes

* 'Half of a half' then 'half of a half of a half', folded onto a piece of paper, standing on one leg holding the family and trembling. Yet, smiling at the camera saying they survived. College classmates enviously congratulated me, wondering if I'd already gotten a house. Each time, I sheepishly replied, "It's just being a house poor." A friend quipped, “I’m just poor, so isn’t it better that you are house poor?”
* My wife took the grade 9 civil servant exam three times and failed all. Instead of becoming a public officer, she worked at an entrance exam institute in Noryangjin. Following infertility treatments after marriage, we had Yeong-woo after two miscarriages and bought a house after five moves. All these events unfolded unpredictably over the past ten years.
* When I first saw this house, what impressed me the most was the kitchen wall. Amid the squalor and mess, it alone claimed 'beauty', standing out conspicuously while striving, trying hard to appear bright.
* From such trivial and mundane days accumulating into seasons, and seasons accumulating into life, this is what we learned.
* So, there at the four-person dining table. Beneath the fresh olive-colored wallpaper adjoining the table. It was right there the raspberry extract sent from the nursery splattered. Neither my wife nor I brought up the incident of the raspberry extract collapsing. My mother went back to her home the very next day, and we tried to continue our days unchangingly.
* When I was jotting down my account number there, I oddly felt like I was forgiving the kindergarten principal.
* The water clung to the kitchen wall doesn’t easily come off. No matter how much I rubbed with a damp towel, rubbed with a magic block, and carefully dabbed with acetone on cotton wool, it was useless. Spots on the smudged spots, where the towel was wiped multiple times, somewhat faded, but the stain never completely disappeared. The more I struggled to erase the marks, the more the roughened paper increased. Ultimately, it seemed like there was nothing left to do but re-wallpaper.
* —Our husband is tall. It was a long-absent smile. But it was also a slightly lonely-looking laugh. As I attached the wallpaper to the wall halfway, she quickly stepped back to make space for me to move.
* I do not remember who it was who told me to stay still when taking pictures. It was probably a very ordinary person, someone who knew good things pass quickly, such days don’t come often, and when they do they’re likely to fly by.
* For giving and immediately taking away something is always what photos have been doing.
* Speaking of light, a scene comes to mind. My father sat close to the TV, as if warming by a bonfire, basking in electronic waves.
* After I started my first lecture at my alma mater and began teaching from city to city, looking at the scenery unfolding alongside the highway made me feel quite uneasy. Even though it was a road visited several times during travels, it was like that. When the scenery ceases to remain scenery, a moment emerged when I realized I too had become part of that scenery, sparking anxiety. As a native of Seoul, it was suddenly clear how accustomed I was to being at the 'center' and how accustomed I was to privilege. And also how clearly it showed how far I had drifted from the center.
* After 'that incident' I knew my impression subtly changed. At such times, I truly felt like I had 'devoured' my past. That digestion, that interpretation was still in process.
* My father looked older than before. Perhaps I appeared the same from my father’s view. Dulling eyes, lips layered with judgment and prejudice, an expression relying on experience yet trapped by such experiences.
* —Professor Kim participated as a guest judge here. Professor Gwak seemed to have strongly opposed you. He told me to keep it to myself.
* Then before signing the document, I put the fountain pen back into my pocket, and wrote my name with a Monami ballpoint pen on the desk.