---
date: 2019-11-04
description: Reading Jeong-joon Park's 'I Worked on the Future at Amazon'
image: /img/book/running.jpg
keywords: I Worked on the Future at Amazon Jeong-joon Park
tags:
  - "#AmazonCulture"
  - "#CustomerCentricity"
templateKey: post
title: Exploring Amazon's Culture
---
Culture is abstracted from concrete details. 'We are for the customers.' A book that deals in detail with Amazon's famous culture.

---
## Summary

## 1 Beginning of the Journey

- A company where principles are real, and there's not much distance between words and actions.
    - Personally experienced and witnessed the slogan "the most customer-centric company in the world" being proven.
    - Introduction of the company and explanation about stocks followed. By the end of the short orientation, I felt "Amazon is my company." Instead of forcing a sense of ownership through training, they actually give shares, a sign of true ownership.
    - There are principles like Hard backbone, disagree and commit, and feedback based on these principles is given to the superior.
- Integrity is 'doing the right thing even when no one is watching.' Amazon was a society where integrity was emphasized.

## 2 Amazon's Culture, Space, and People

- Expanded and relocated offices to expensive downtown areas to attract top talent.
- Uses a 'door desk' made from a door by Jeff Bezos, symbolizing the frugal spirit of the founder. Turns off unnecessary lights like vending machines.
- Failure and innovation are inseparable twins. You can fail, but what's more important is what you learn from it to not repeat the mistake.
- Often starts responses to questions with, "That's a very good question." Pretending to know what you don’t is the real problem. They believe that the person asking questions benefits others who remain silent but didn't know.
- Instead of teamwork or diligence, Amazon seeks talent that can advance the company to the next level.
- Colleagues who don't rely on luck, understand the entire system, and solve problems honestly. They were very aware that handling work carelessly would eventually return as a debt and incur greater costs later.

## 3 Amazon’s Customer-Centricity Is Not a Cliché

- Even if multiple people are selling the same product, only one page is shown.
- Despite the drop in sales due to negative reviews, they didn't delete the bad reviews.
- A lot of workforce and infrastructure were invested in personalization.
- Invested in faster page loading and simplified payment.
- A single act of kindness towards one customer brings in others. A Christmas gift stolen during delivery was quickly redelivered at Amazon's expense. The customer wrote about this incident in a newspaper, gaining a massive advertising effect.
- Undertook projects to consider accessibility across all sites for visually impaired users. As a developer, understanding the significant costs involved made it even more impressive.

## 4 A Sailboat Driven by the Winds of Time

- Amazon continuously reinvests in long-term business, causing exponential growth in sales while net profit barely moves.
- Launched Amazon Fresh in 2007 to expand the high-repurchase rate grocery category. However, it was ignored by customers who bought groceries from Walmart weekly by car. Ten years later, in 2017, Amazon Fresh service was halted in regions other than New York. This failure led to the development of an unforeseen idea, resulting in the Amazon Prime Now service, delivering products within an hour using the warehouses from that time.
- The flywheel. There are two loops around growth: Selection → CX → Traffic → Sellers, Growth → Lower Cost Structure → Lower Prices.
- How a child can beat a chess champion: by allowing the child to make two moves each time the champion makes one.
- Strategy to make the best decision vs. strategy to adjust quickly after making a decision. Significant investments were made into software deploy - rollback infrastructure to allow a large organization to try fast and fail quickly.

## 5 Vision to See Essence and Unhesitant Words

- Says that presentations are convenient for the presenter but challenging for the audience. Instead, they use a six-pager, a six-page narrative document. This six-pager should be written as if explaining verbally so that someone with no prior knowledge can read to the end and understand it without further explanation.

## 6 Ultimate Efficiency: Amazon-Style Solutions

- When friends lived together, dishwashing was always an issue. It was uncomfortable to gripe about it among friends. However, significant change came through a simple solution of writing the date and name on a paper after doing the dishes. Since management was transparent, people voluntarily started washing dishes without being asked. This idea was inspired by Amazon's work style.

## 7 Survival Skills Learned in the Jungle

- Conducted efficient communication through pictures and numbers.
- Set daily tasks to a manageable amount and finished them, creating a continuous series of small achievements rather than failures.
- Due to context switching, work progress was recorded as if explaining a conversation while proceeding.
- Write the goal clearly in one line and, in the next line, list 4-6 more specific steps needed to achieve it in order. In experience, once goals and steps are written, it’s rarely left unachieved.
- Concentration is a habit.
- The thought of being able to leave anytime freed me from obsessiveness and restraint, paradoxically giving me the strength to stay longer at the company.

## 8 The Biggest Lesson from Amazon: Standing Alone

- Fences provide safety, but it's clear they take away something more significant in return. Perhaps it is the possibility I possess or the feeling of being alive itself.
- The fact is that Amazon's success and growth were not accidental. Amazon's growth principles—upholding principles, seeing essence, making time an ally, not fearing failure, avoiding wastage, acting without hesitation, and constantly innovating—are learnings that can only be seen as processes rather than outcomes.
- In the coming world, the line will be drawn by whether we can freely imagine, discern the essential needs of others, connect effective resources for it, and continually innovate.