---
date: 2023-02-22 23:18:28.862000+00:00
description: Reading David Epstein's 'The Secret of Late Bloomers'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Amateur'
- '#Expertise'
- '#VanGogh'
- '#LateBloomer'
- '#ToolLearning'
templateKey: post
title: Amateur
---

Some things are actually obtained when you don't fixate on them. Software expertise is one of those things. The fastest road to becoming a software engineer is to create like an amateur. Here, if you focus excessively on expertise, you become engrossed in tool learning. Learning itself becomes the goal. You end up knowing the tools or methodologies well, but not being able to create anything.

Learning the necessary tools is also important. However, that cannot be the goal. A baby doesn't learn to speak by memorizing a dictionary. A baby learns to speak by speaking imperfectly.

Everyone fears looking like an amateur. Approaching with something specialized feels reassuring. However, what's more important is the something that you wish to solve with it. Paradoxically, by becoming engrossed in the methodology of expertise, one loses sight of what they intended to do.

Therefore, there needs to be a mechanism to prevent being absorbed in specialization. Let's take time to engage in activities and thoughts we don't usually have. Let's believe that whatever we are immersed in can actually be resolved through a fusion of various experiences and facts. Embrace the time of an amateur. Sometimes give yourself the opportunity to think differently, not just the thoughts you have every day. And try it, even if it seems amateurish.

Van Gogh wandered until he was 30. He repeatedly started and stopped art education from an early age. He also spent time trying to become a clergyman. It was around the age of 30 that Van Gogh began to paint properly. His late start gifted him originality. He didn't receive specialized art education from an early age, nor did he walk a smooth path as an artist from the start.

Late bloomers can sometimes become victors. There's no need to fear wandering.