---
title: "Iren Investment Record #1"
description: The profitability of Bitcoin mining is strong
date: 2025-06-15
tags:
  - "#invest"
  - "#IREN"
links:
---

Earlier this year, while rebalancing my assets, I increased my allocations to Bitcoin and Ethereum. I was concerned about the short-term volatility of Bitcoin. Therefore, I was looking for suitable related stocks associated with Bitcoin. I came across a company called Iren. It has substantial intrinsic value as a data center, and it already demonstrated excellent cash flow from Bitcoin.

( Based on the report of [3Q FY25](https://iren.gcs-web.com/static-files/f76d5271-b6f5-4004-8799-d2659196c427) ) 

The profitability of the Bitcoin mining business is strong
- The mining cost relative to Bitcoin’s price is less than half.
	- $41k all-in cash cost per Bitcoin mined (vs. $93k revenue per Bitcoin mined)
- As of May 2025, based on prices and 3Q FY25 earnings, I believe the EV/EBITDA is somewhat undervalued at around 5.4 times.
	- EV/EBITDA ~= 5.45 EV = $1.8B, EBITDA ~= $330m(E)
	- Record EBITDA of $82.7 million ($62.7 million in Q2 FY25)
- It has around 40 EH/s of computing power.
	- Considering the global Bitcoin hash rate is around 800–1,000 EH/s, it holds quite a significant market share.

The AI business is modest, with an EBITDA of $3.1M (vs $141.2M from Bitcoin). 
- Therefore, we need to focus on three main points: 1) compliance with the roadmap, 2) flexibility in adapting Bitcoin infrastructure to AI, and 3) ultimately, the ability to generate deals.
- 1) Roadmap
	- Horizon 1: Q4 2025
	- Sweetwater 1 (1.4GW): Power supply expected by April 2026
- 2) Potential for changing Bitcoin infrastructure
	- At the Prince George data center (50MW), they demonstrated a smooth transition of Bitcoin mining equipment (ASIC) to AI GPUs.
	- However, while the application of liquid cooling technology remains, there are concerns regarding the efficiency and profitability of repurposing the equipment, so further study is required.
- 3) Revenue generation
	- GPU fleet is near full utilization – supporting training and inference workloads, including through white-labeled compute with leading US AI cloud providers (generating annualized run-rate revenue of $28 million).