---
date: 2025-04-06 23:05:00+00:00
description: Reflections on Han Byung-chul's 'The Crisis of Narrative'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#checkinCall'
- '#socialMedia'
- '#socialNetwork'
- '#InstagramDeletion'
- '#importanceOfConversation'
templateKey: post
title: Check-in Call
---

The experiences and thoughts one person can have are not infinite. We probably repeat the same stories over and over. Yet, telling stories is enjoyable. It even brings a sense of relief. Particularly, it is more enjoyable for the storyteller than the listener. It's like waiting for one's turn to enjoy while speaking, as if engaging in a give-and-take of conversation. This is a kind of mutual exchange, a conscious sharing.

I watched social media take the world by storm. I got swept up in it too. I created waves within that surge. Within the social network, I spied on relationships and built connections. During middle and high school, I spent entire days on Cyworld. Afterward, there would be a moment of clarity. I thoroughly observed the Cyworld pages of kids whose faces I only knew from the next class. In face-to-face meetings, I was too awkward to hold a proper conversation. My evolving narrative of social networks moved from Facebook to Instagram. There's an overflow of information about what people ate and saw. Though everything is formatted as a "story," there's no narrative. The storytelling on social networks is essentially very different from speaking in person. It lacks the feel of mothers who would chat on the phone for hours at night. It has a subtly different flavor from direct interaction.

Last year, I deleted Instagram. After doing so, I was completely unaware of what people around me were up to. Whether they were in Korea, or managing their jobs well I had no clue. I realized how much check-in updates were shared through Instagram. Unable to withstand this, I started making check-in calls to people. These calls were awkward but also delightful. I now understood the mindset of mothers who would chatter away on the phone in their youth.

Why I felt stifled within social networks, the distinction between information and narrative, the reasons why calls were awkward yet satisfying—all these thoughts subtly passed over me.