---
date: 2019-04-08
description: Reading Dae-sung Ryu's 'Personal Writing'
image: /img/book/nude.jpg
keywords: Personal Writing,Dae-sung Ryu,Writing
tags:
- '#Choi In-ah'
- '#NakedAndNude'
- '#Writing'
- '#GeorgeOrwell'
- '#KimHoon'
templateKey: post
title: Naked and Nude
---

I go to Choi In-ah's bookstore. It is quiet, and above all, I like that books are suggested. I pick books that I wouldn’t usually read. The probability that I won't finish such books is noticeably high. However, when I end up enjoying a good book after such a challenge, it feels even better. This book was like that. It seemed like a book I wouldn't usually read, but after finishing it, I found it very satisfying.

On each deserted island, flowers **blossomed**. On each deserted island, flowers **bloomed**. Kim Hoon reportedly pondered over 'i' and 'eun' for a week. Writing can reveal emotions and thoughts through even a single postposition. George Orwell presents four motivations for writing: egoism to be noticed, aesthetic enthusiasm for beauty, a historical impulse to preserve truth, and a political purpose to turn the world in a specific direction. I also want to write. Well. I want to write the truth, beyond mere facts.

Personal writing is said to be the nudification of the soul. The author suggests that while nobody can be completely free from self-censorship, if one wants to write personally, it takes courage to reveal and confidently face oneself. Naked and nude are different. Writing that exposes while concealing is closer to nude than naked. Let's try writing like a confident nude, expanding personal experiences and writing universally relatable texts.

## Notes

- It is pointless to argue about tastes.
- Writings that move the heart generally resemble literature.
- The entire purpose of a first sentence is to make the reader move to the second sentence. If the second sentence naturally leads to the third, it's good writing.
- Emotional expressions and brilliant sentences are not the criteria for good writing. It's enough if your writing embodies your own fresh and new ideas. How pathetic is a painter's technique without creative imagination!
- Expanding and generalizing personal experiences is one of the best techniques to start writing.
- You can't deliberately craft emotional expressions and brilliant sentences; they are natural outcomes that can be obtained from the process of immersing oneself in writing.
- Not everyone can become Edvard Munch by distorting forms, and not everyone can become Jackson Pollock by throwing cans of paint onto a canvas.
- A sentence that doesn't adhere to grammar is like a soccer player ignoring the offside rule during a game.
- Rather than 'Reason to Not Die', think of 'Reason to Live.'
- Writing must be much more precise and clear than everyday conversation because the nonverbal and paralinguistic elements included in speaking are excluded.
- If you can summarize your writing paragraph by paragraph and condense it into a word, the reader can easily understand it as well.
- Most writings can be reduced by half without damaging them.
- Summary is not just about reducing volume but practicing condensing the essence without fluff.
- I hope personal writing is not used as a tool for a 'closed self-reinforcement mechanism.' Writings by those with strong convictions, clear right and wrong, rigorous ethical standards, or caught up in religious dogma carry the risk of excluding other possibilities.