---
date: 2025-02-02 23:01:00+00:00
description: Reflections on reading Randy Komisar's 'The Monk and the Riddle'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#LifeDesign'
- '#Startup'
- '#Passion'
- '#GoalSetting'
- '#Leadership'
templateKey: post
title: Journey and Passion
---

The notion of a "delayed life plan" suggests doing what you have to do and then doing what you really want. If what you have to do requires willpower, doing what you truly want is closer to passion. **Will** is what you feel compelled to do out of responsibility, while **passion** is what irresistibly attracts you. I looked back at myself, saying I wanted to start a business. Was it simply that I felt I "had" to do it out of willpower? If so, **what do I really want to do?** The contemplation began. I thought about passion.

It's not about needing grandiose rhetoric. Even if many are working hard in one direction, there's no guarantee of success. That's why vision is even more necessary. If the goal is large, you can redefine the problem. However, if you get obsessed with superficial obstacles, strategies, or methods, you may eventually lose your way. There needs to be a goal that transcends that. The way to drop an egg from 1 meter without breaking it is to drop it from 1.5 meters.

Leaders and managers are different; it's situational.

> *“More than a manager's role who ensures trains arrive on time (...) encouraging people to go beyond limits, inspiring them to achieve greatness, entrusting tasks to someone who can do the job better than oneself, and helping people work harmoniously together…”*

Smart managers can be shaped by a certain level of intelligence, attitude, and time, but not necessarily leaders. Leaders grow through execution, courage, respect, and inspiration. Ironically, I transitioned from a leadership role to a managerial role. In retrospect, I took on the leader's role, and in the past 2-3 years, started fulfilling the managerial role. I provided answers rather than questions, led rather than assisted. It was a valuable experience for me. In some complex organizational scenarios, a manager may be needed more than a leader.

In the prologue of "The Monk and the Riddle," a monk reaches his destination. But the moment he arrives, he must return to the starting point. Ultimately, he sets out on the journey again. Is there ever an end to the destination? A new destination emerges. It doesn't matter if it's the starting point. Is it a meaningless repetition? Both setting a destination and resetting it upon arrival, and enjoying the journey, are all important. It’s been over ten years at work. I reflect on the journey. Where have I reached, where are others? At times, I faced distress comparing myself. Reading the book, I looked back. I realized that my journey, too, has been a precious and interesting one.