---
date: 2023-02-06 12:35:55.430000+00:00
description: Reading Atsumu Hayashi's "Accounting Concert 1: Revenue and Expenses"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Accounting'
- '#FinancialAccounting'
- '#ManagementAccounting'
- '#CashFlow'
- '#FraudulentAccounting'
templateKey: post
title: Revisiting Accounting After a Long Time
---

Accounting is an important tool. It is essential from the perspective of viewing a company, whether you work for one, run a business, or make investments.

Accounting is divided into financial accounting and management accounting. There is financial accounting from the perspective of a shareholder and management accounting for operating the company. Accounting is not an absolute truth but a subjective representation. Balance sheets refer to financial condition, and income statements represent a company's business results over a period. Broadly, when viewing a company as a machine that generates profit through cash, accounting allows us to structure and identify elements for improvement.

One area that I hadn't considered much before is "cash flow." Even with the same earnings, one can consider how much money was required and how quickly it was earned.

Conclusions

1. Having many product lines may be a phenomenon resulting from the difficulty in predicting demand. Because the company is unsure of what the customer will like, they try creating various things. As a result, this phenomenon complicates the corporate structure, making improvements difficult. Ultimately, it suggests an inability to determine what will sell.
2. Investing 500 won to earn 100 won over 100 years would not be a good investment. This is why fast cash flow is essential.
3. From the perspective of marginal profit (contribution margin), it is necessary to examine whether a model results in losses the more it sells. When a business with high fixed costs surpasses its BEP (Break-even Point), how much does net income increase? By dividing variable and fixed costs, can marginal profit truly increase as scale expands? In other words, one must objectively assess whether it is a game where economies of scale can occur.
4. By arbitrarily adjusting inventory or credit sales, accounting can be sufficiently manipulated. The opposite case exists, where malicious adjustments result in fraudulent accounting.