---
date: 2020-06-07 14:36:57.879000+00:00
description: After reading Alex Korb's "The Upward Spiral"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#OvercomingDepression'
- '#Neuroscience'
- '#Neuroplasticity'
- '#LifeConcerns'
- '#SelfManagement'
templateKey: post
title: Common Ways to Cope with Depression
---

I often find myself easily slipping into feelings of depression. In such moments, I usually take a nap. Waking up, I feel somewhat better.

The book discusses how our emotions fundamentally originate from our body, including our brain. Therefore, it suggests that depression can be overcome through sleep, exercise, and social activities. It explains how feelings of depression are related to brain function and hormones, and it talks about effective ways to manage this. To prevent possibilities and anxieties from triggering worry, making decent decisions is okay, even if they're not perfect.

Lately, I've been feeling overwhelmed by too much uncertainty and many concerns. How should I change jobs? How should I find a place to live? These various concerns and moments of choice come up. Five years ago, I didn't have any savings, and my salary was low, so I simply focused on finding the minimum dwelling and ended up living in a semi-basement for two years. I didn't worry too much back then. But now, I constantly ponder over how much debt to take on and how much cash to tie up in a house, and I get distracted by constantly disappearing lease listings. It's a happy dilemma, but it's more complicated and troubling than expected.

Living simply in a complicated world is not easy. We need the strength to simplify the complex so that we don't succumb to depression.

---

# Recap

## Chapter 1: The Brain Map of Depression

- It is now widely known that the brain can change depending on how you use your mind. Everything from focusing your attention, deliberately guiding your thoughts in a certain direction, to quietly calming your emotions with a clear purpose can change the brain. This is the essence of neuroplasticity.
- Sometimes everything in life feels difficult and meaningless. This kind of feeling is something everyone experiences from time to time, a byproduct that naturally emerges from the complex circuits of the brain. For most people, these emotions come as whispers and then disappear. However, due to small neurobiological differences, these emotions can cling to some people and not go away.

## Chapter 2: The Hamster Wheel of Anxiety and Worry

- Let's get outside and soak up some sunlight. Bright sunlight helps generate serotonin. It also promotes the secretion of melatonin, which helps you sleep well at night (Chapter 7). So if you're staying inside all day, try to get outside for at least a few minutes during the day. Go for a walk, listen to music under the sun, or just sunbathe.
- It’s difficult to explain why we worry, but we certainly do, and it hinders a smooth life.
- Make a decision, whatever it may be. It's possibilities, not certainty, that trigger anxiety and worry. Generally, the more choices people have, the more upset they become because they have more things to worry about.

## Chapter 3: Why Life Is Filled with Miserable Events

- Depression paints even happy memories with darkness and sadness. In a state of depression, the brain is biased toward negative memories. This doesn’t mean you forget the items on your shopping list because of bad memories, but that you remember only the bad and forget the good. This issue arises due to communication problems between the amygdala and hippocampus.
- Just because the brain is naturally tilted towards negativity doesn’t mean it’s stuck that way forever. Medication could be the answer, or one of the various brain circuit adjustment methods we’ll discuss in detail later could be the answer. The point is, improvement is possible.
- Simply imagine the possibility of positive events occurring in the future. You don’t need to believe they will definitely happen, just think that they might. You could meet true love tomorrow. Things don’t necessarily have to turn out the worst. By acknowledging that good things can happen, the inferior frontal gyrus is activated.

## Chapter 4: The Man Trapped by Bad Habits

- Habits are called habits because they are hard to break. Recognize that you have a habit and believe you can change it. Habits can truly be changed.
- These days, there are so many easily accessible pleasures that they completely dominate the dopamine in the nucleus accumbens.
- Not acting according to habit makes you anxious, and when you’re anxious, you want to act more according to habit.

## Chapter 5: The Effects of Exercise on the Brain

- By "exercise," I simply mean moving your body around. You don't need to go to a gym or buy fancy workout clothes. Just move more and avoid sitting still all the time.
- Exercising leads you to fall asleep faster and sleep longer. Considering that we spend one-third of our lives either asleep or trying to sleep, changes in sleep patterns can have a tremendous impact on the remaining waking hours.

## Chapter 6: Not the Best Decision, but a Good Enough Decision

- Decisions need to be made, even if they’re wrong. If you don’t make a decision, that's the end of it.
- If you reach a cliff following a path, turn around and choose another path.
- Make a good enough decision, even if it’s not the best. Because the world is complicated, there's hardly ever enough information to make a decision.
- Decision-making deadlocks are created even among brain regions. To break the deadlock, you need to make a decision, even one.
- Make decisions to achieve what you want, rather than decisions to avoid.
- It is important to feel a sense of control over the situation by deciding.

## Chapter 7: The Neuroscience of Sleep

- Sleeping poorly is not only the most common symptom of depression but also the biggest factor causing and maintaining it.

## Chapter 8: Make Habits Allies, Not Enemies

- Resolve to change. Resolving to change is much more effective than simply wanting to change. And the chances of success are greatly increased when such a resolution is made. Clearly specifying the part you want to change also increases the likelihood of achievement. For instance, deciding to "exercise more" is less effective than deciding to "go to the gym before work on Tuesdays and Thursdays."
- Friedrich Nietzsche, the German philosopher, said, “He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.”