---
date: 2020-01-01
description: Reading 'Upheaval' by Jared Diamond
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Jared Diamond,Guns, Germs, and Steel,Upheaval
tags:
- '#Crisis'
- '#Choice'
- '#Change'
- '#History'
- '#NationalResponse'
templateKey: post
title: Crisis! Choice! Change!
---
This book discusses how countries have dealt with upheaval through crises, choices, and changes. It covers the Meiji Restoration in Japan, post-World War II Germany, the Finland-Soviet war, among others. It also examines the ongoing crises in Japan, the United States, and the world.

The Finland-Soviet war story was particularly interesting. In 1939, the Soviet Union attacked Finland. With a population of 3.7 million, Finland could not withstand the Soviet attack and surrendered some territory. In 1941, when Germany invaded the Soviet Union, Finland sided with Germany and betrayed the Soviet Union. In 1944, as the tide turned in favor of the Soviet Union, they betrayed Germany. After the great war, Finland maintained a neutral diplomatic stance between the two countries. This tightrope diplomacy of Finland led to the term 'Finlandization,' used mockingly by some. The story was fascinating as it reminded me of our own nation's diplomatic balancing acts.

Current ongoing crises examined include those of Japan and the United States, encompassing issues like birthrates, aging populations, immigration, resources, nuclear war, climate change, inequality, and polarization. When reading about Japan's crisis, I thought how inequality and low birthrates are as severe in our country as in Japan, and the author also notes this. In contrast, America's crisis is discussed in terms of political and social polarization. With the rise of social media over traditional media, people are drifting away from objectivity and diversity. I found these crises to be relevant to themes affecting both our nation and the world.

I've never enjoyed reading books on historical subjects before, but this book was different. Above all, my curiosity about the world has increased. I should take another look at the history-related books I have at home. Life and the world always involve upheaval.