---

date: 2018-03-10

description: After reading Nassim Nicholas Taleb's "The Black Swan"

image: /img/book/black-swan.jpg

keywords: Black Swan, Nassim Nicholas Taleb, randomness

tags:

- '#doubt'

- '#blackswan'

- '#scalability'

- '#uncertainty'

- '#normaldistribution'

templateKey: post

title: Doubt

---

People believed that swans were white birds. It was a belief based on experience. A black swan appeared. Swans were no longer just white birds. Events outside the realm of expectation, extreme values, are called "black swans" in statistics.

The author is skeptical of confident attitudes. There are two ways to approach phenomena. The first is by excluding the unusual and focusing on the "normal." The second is by first noting extreme cases, especially those with cumulative effects like a black swan. The author argues that assuming the "normal," particularly a bell curve representing a normal distribution, tells us nothing. The problem with the normal distribution is that it gives us an illusion of taming uncertainty. He criticizes the blindness of assuming and acting as though black swans do not exist.

The world is full of ***scalable*** events. Imagine randomly selecting 1,000 people and arranging them in a stadium. We can gauge their "weight." Regardless of how heavy one individual is, the average weight of the 1,000 people doesn't change significantly. However, consider determining this sample's characteristics based on their income. If Bill Gates is added to this sample, the average income would likely reflect Bill Gates' income. This scenario is called "scalability." The world is more scalable than we think. A few historical events have had immense impacts. The world does not change gradually but rather "leaps" due to black swans.

While reading the book, I felt focusing on uncertainty is very rational in an extreme society with scalable characteristics. The author's thoughts on avoiding blind certainty and pondering over the extreme were fascinating. To avoid being blindly overconfident and thinking "we know something," we need the courage to be fools. As the author states, instead of being moderately conservative or aggressive logically, we should sometimes be ultra-conservative or ultra-aggressive, as everything changes with the appearance of a black swan.

PS. I read this book three times and wondered if I was mocking the concept of "knowing" blindly through the book. The author does not entirely disregard "knowing." He mentions the difference between "know-how" and "know-what." Surgery should be entrusted to a doctor who knows how to perform it, but the future is unpredictable for anyone.

## Book Summary

- 23 The central theme of this book is observing the blindness we humans have toward randomness.
- 27 By focusing on what we don't know, the so-called half-knowledge, we can gain much.
- 28 We don't realize what we don't know. It stems from the structure of the human mind. Humans fail to realize principles and cram facts and only facts into their minds.
- 33 Most social research that builds on inferences from the bell-shaped curve of "normal" or "normal distribution" tells us virtually nothing. Why? Because the normal distribution ignores or can't handle large deviations but falsely assures us of taming uncertainty. I call this GIF, the "Great Intellectual Fraud," in this book.
- 34 When a Platonic attitude builds a nest in our minds, we neglect things that don't fit neatly or are difficult to explain. Although a Platonic attitude can enhance our understanding, it's not universally applicable.
- 42 Umberto Eco is one of the very few scholars who is erudite, witty, and insightful. With a large library, boasting 30,000 volumes, he divides visitors into two types. The first reacts by saying, "Wow, Dr. Eco! What an amazing library. But how many of them have you read?" The second type, though much rarer, understands that a personal library is a tool for research, not a decorative ego boost. Indeed, already read books have far less value than unread ones. Regardless of wealth, interest rates, or recent real estate market difficulties, our libraries should be filled with books concerning things we don't know. As we age, our knowledge grows and our books to be read pile higher. The more we know, the more unread books line our shelves—a procession of unread books, which we shall call the antilibrary.
- 42 We tend to treat our knowledge as private property to be guarded and protected. This notion of knowledge, as a decorative badge of social rank, contradicts Eco's concept of a library and represents a bias influencing our minds by clinging only to what is known.
- 52 When encountering history, the human mind experiences three symptoms, which I call the triad of opacity.
  1. The Delusion of Understanding: Everyone thinks they know how the world operates, but the world is more complex than people think (or rather, random).
  2. Retrospective Distortion: Like looking into a car's rearview mirror, we only review related events after they occur. (History written in books appears clearer and more systematic than the world we experience.)
  3. The overvaluation of fact and information by respected and knowledgeable individuals. Especially when they create "categories" — namely when they engage in Platonic thinking.
- 55 **History doesn't crawl; it leaps** (...) This notion solidified my belief that the human mind is an exceptional "explanation machine." It can explain almost everything and interpret various phenomena, yet it cannot tolerate the "unpredictable."
- 55 Consider the fate of Giacomo, an opera singer from the late 19th century, before the invention of recording technology. Like how Giacomo had no way to take his voice beyond his locality, famous singers couldn't take theirs beyond their territory to threaten local singers. It was a time when unequal pie distribution existed but was tolerable. Inequality comparable to body size differences, if you will. Each piece of the pie was distributed hand in hand to everyone. While famous singers could claim a larger piece due to larger audiences, it wasn't threatening. Up until that point, scalability did not exist, and to double the audience, one had to sing twice. (...) Now think about the effect of recordings. It was an invention that resulted in tremendous inequality. Our ability to replay performances means that one can listen to Horowitz playing Rachmaninoff's prelude on a computer as background music for hours rather than a local exiled pianist. Rural pianists were now relegated to giving piano lessons to untalented children at minimum wage. The deceased Horowitz overshadowed the livelihood of living pianists.
- In a Kingdom of Mediocrity, no single case can significantly change the overall outcome as the sample size grows. In a Kingdom of Extremes, inequality is so severe that a single observation can have a disproportionate impact on the whole.
- 98 There's a turkey. Every day, its owner brings food. As the food is given, the turkey becomes more convinced that "friendly" humans are bringing the food purely for its benefit. But then, an unexpected event occurs on a Wednesday afternoon before Thanksgiving, forcing a revision of the turkey's beliefs.
- 115 "I never said that all conservatives are stupid. I said that most stupid people are conservatives." This is a statement from John Stuart Mill defending himself. This problem is chronic. Suppose you tell people that effort is not always the key to success. In that case, most will perceive that to mean that the secret to success is always luck rather than effort.
- Popper’s greatest idea is his insight into the fundamental and radical unpredictability of the world. I’ll reserve a discussion on this observation for the chapter on “prediction.”
- 125 **George Soros, when investing, constantly searches for instances that prove his initial hypothesis was wrong. This is true self-assurance: the ability to look at the world free from the desire to look for signals that bolster one's ego.**
- 128 Modern society can be described as a kingdom of extremes, a world dominated by rare and very rare events. After seeing only white swans for thousands, nay, millions of days, a black swan may suddenly appear one day. Hence, we should reserve judgment until a period much longer than what we feel is sufficient.
- 133 In the previous chapter, while examining induction, we scrutinized what we can infer about the unseen, that which exists beyond our data set. In this chapter, we will focus on the visible, which exists within our data set, and examine the distortions that arise during the process of processing that information.
- 140 As members of the primate species, humans have an insatiable hunger for rules. Our efforts plug given problems into our minds. No, regrettably, the description "to cram" is more accurate. Information becomes more complex, and thus harder to summarize, the more random it is. The more structured it is during summarization, the more randomness decreases. Simply put, the very condition that forces simplification also leads us to perceive the world as less random than it is. The black swan is what gets discarded in the process of simplification.
- "The king died, and the queen died." Compare this sentence to the next: "The king died. Then the queen, out of grief, also died." The second sentence adds a few elements to the first, yet the dimension of the whole is diminished. The second sentence is easier to convey and remember. Two pieces of information merge into one. With ease of memory comes ease of marketing to others, or to put it another way, it can be packaged for sale. This is the definition and function of storytelling.
- Those who work in professions dominated by randomness can easily be trapped in the exhausting cycle of evaluating past actions based on retrospective results. Keeping a journal is the minimal starting point in such fields.
- The conclusion of my story is that the reason we fail to grasp black swan phenomena is due to systems, namely storytelling, intuition, and emotion.
- The appearance of unpublished evidence distorts the role and importance of the black swan phenomenon alongside the errors of narrative-making and confirmation bias. For example, in the success of literary works, unpublished evidence influences both the overestimation and the underestimation of various factors.
- As previously examined, the human perception system does not react to what is neither immediately visible nor emotionally felt. We are beings trained to cling to the superficial, focusing only on what is apparent and paying no mind to what remains distant in our minds. We are in a dual battle with unseen evidence.
- Train your rational decision-making abilities. Train yourself to distinguish between the sensory and the empirical. By doing so, you'll be rewarded with liberation from the world's harms, making life more enriching. Additionally, regarding probability, the mother of all abstract concepts, remember that humans are sometimes superficial. We need to strive to better understand the surrounding objects and events, but the most important thing is to stop "digging tunnels."
- "Platonic thinking," predicting without opening "what's in the box," is concentrating only on rules (irrational ones).
- We aim to lower anxiety about uncertainty by "bringing our anchor down" on some number we've created.
- Humans should be human! Acknowledging that being human involves some degree of intellectual arrogance in one's work. Don't be ashamed of this fact. Don’t be afraid of holding opinions; that's life. Don't avoid making forecasts. Though I've rambled, I'm not advising against being fools. Simply, be a fool in the right place.
- Knowing that most "risk management techniques" are flawed due to black swans, our strategies should not be moderately aggressive or conservative but rather ultra-conservative or ultra-aggressive.
- Avoid seeking peripheral precision. To put it simply, broaden your perspective. (...) Similarly, avoid trying to predict black swans too subtly. It's easy to be hit by unforeseen events. (...) Resources should be directed toward preparation rather than forecasting.
- Although one cannot grasp how events occur, one can vividly envision the consequences of those events. For example, the probability of an earthquake is unknown, but one can imagine the consequences were an earthquake to occur in San Francisco. Decision-making is possible by focusing on the outcomes of events rather than trying to calculate their probabilities. This is the core concept of uncertainty, and much of my life is based on it.