---
date: 2024-08-18 22:00:00+00:00
description: Reflections on Gregory Burns's 'The Self Illusion'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#HumanIdentity'
- '#SelfCreation'
- '#ThoughtAndExistence'
- '#PowerOfNarrative'
- '#IllusionOfSelf'
templateKey: post
title: Human Identity Can Be Created
---
How do we believe the fact that King Sejong created Hangul? Even without witnessing it ourselves, we accept it as truth. This is because we receive information as belief through stories.

Humans cannot store past events in their brains exactly as they happened. We store them in a compressed form, infer and reconstruct them, and handle information by editing and processing it. The crucial point is that this process is imperfect. We do not judge facts as they are but interpret them differently according to our perspectives. Moreover, influenced by our surroundings, we are bound to be imperfect editors. We edit the past, present, and future imperfectly to create narratives that give birth to a continuous existence of "me."

Ultimately, the imperfect stories I believe in shape who I am. There is no singular self. The past me, present me, future me, the me as perceived by others—everything is just a story. If so, we can reverse this fact to our advantage. We can choose the stories we want to believe and recreate ourselves anew. Just as good food creates a healthy body, the narratives we hear, see, and tell create us.

Let's connect this with the proposition "I think, therefore I am (Cogito, ergo sum)." Even the perception of thoughts and changing them is an invention of humans. Therefore, we can invent ourselves.

---

## Conclusion

- The self as a continuous and consistent being is an illusion. More bluntly, the self is a delusion. Although specific details may vary for each person, the model of the self is generally similar and filled with stories that have entered our brain from external sources. Some may argue this is an extreme thought. It's true. Our personal narratives are not entirely fictitious. There were events on which everyone agrees. - 261
- To summarize, the stories you consume, especially those you read, can be considered food for the mind. You are what you eat. The stories you consume become part of you, and the repeated stimulation of sensory centers forms narratives equivalent to muscle memory. And your brain becomes accustomed to these narrative patterns. Whether they are fictitious does not matter. These memories influence the brain model used to interpret life events. You have control over what stories you consume. Stories of heroes can strengthen your sense of being on a hero's journey. But as we will see in the next chapter, continuously consuming stories tinged with shadows of conspiracy can push your personal narrative in a different direction, making you view the world through a lens of suspicion and paranoia. - 278 p
- Finally, we reach the end of the journey. I hope I have convinced you that there are various versions of yourself and that they have always been there. Recognizing the power of this sentence opens the ability to create new narratives before you. As long as you remember you are the storyteller, you can control the plot. You must be diligent. While you cannot erase old narratives, you can replace them by consuming others that more closely align with what you want. You are what you eat. - 334 p
- I conclude by quoting the end of Shakespeare's play "The Tempest." Prospero was stranded on an island for twelve years with his daughter. He promises Alonso, who rescues them, that he will tell how they have lived. Alonso replies, "I long to hear the story of your life, which must strange be to the ear." Live your life. Tell strange stories. - 334 p