---
date: 2017-12-30
description: Reflections on John Ruskin's 'Unto This Last'
image: /img/book/john-ruskin.jpg
keywords: economy, John Ruskin, Unto This Last
tags:
- '#HumansAreNotMachines'
- '#TossFounderSGLee'
- '#EconomicActivity'
- '#HumanCenteredEconomy'
- '#EmployerEmployeeRelations'
templateKey: post
title: Humans Are Not Machines
---
I had the opportunity to watch a lecture by SG Lee, the founder of Toss. SG Lee spoke with clarity and straightforwardness. During his lecture, he introduced this book.

The author defines humans not as machines with efficiency, but as entities driven by the soul. He further defines 'value' as something 'useful to life,' emphasizing that productivity and efficiency are not the sole foundations of economic activity. As the essence of wealth lies within people, he highlights the importance of affection between employers and employees.

Reading the book allowed me to consider the economy from a people-centered perspective. If I were the head of a company, could I truly treat my employees as humans with souls rather than mere machines or resources? While I can understand this idea intellectually, understanding and acting upon it are entirely different matters.

## Book Summary

### Chapter 1. The Source of Honor
- 12) Your honesty should not be based on religion or policy; your religion and policy should be based on honesty.
- 30) In a household where only a piece of bread remains and both the mother and children are hungry, their interests are not in a state of parallel. If the mother eats the bread, she will tighten her hungry belly and head to work. Must we interpret the interests between the mother and children as 'hostile' merely because they differ? (...) Just because interests diverge does not mean that animosity must be present in their dealings, nor does it mean that all means and methods should be employed to gain advantage.
- 31) It is futile to deduce all human actions to the interpretation logic of a 'balance of gains and losses.'
- 32) The word 'justice' is used here to imply 'affection' one holds for another. The secret for employers and employees to maintain desirable relationships and bring maximum benefits to each other lies in justice and affection.
- 34) Servants are entities powered by the soul. (...) Only when the unique fuel of this entity, 'affection,' is supplied and detonated, will it inspire the will and spirit to their utmost state and yield the highest labor output.
- 37) If you extend kindness to a servant in the hope of receiving gratitude, expect no recompense for that cheap favor. Offer kindness with pure motives beyond all interests, and you will achieve all your economic intentions. As it's true in the economic sector as with all aspects of life, whoever seeks to preserve their life will lose it; and whoever loses it will find it.
- 57) In conducting business, the merchant holds a position of responsibility and leadership as they exert direct influence on the occupations of many workers.

### Chapter 2. The Vein of Wealth
- 68) 'Wealth' is akin to electricity, only manifesting through inequality and discrepancy.
- 72) The fundamental desire hidden behind the name of 'wealth' is none other than the 'power over others.'
- 90) Firstly, as advocated so far, the primary value and efficacy of money are fundamentally based on the power over others. (...) However, power over others can also be achieved through means other than money, so as previously mentioned, the control of money is imperfect and uncertain.
- 91) Secondly, since the essence of wealth is fundamentally based on the power over others, wealth that loses this essence cannot exist as wealth if it is nominally called 'wealth' but practically fails to exert this power.
- 92) Thirdly, the essence of wealth is fundamentally based on the power over others; hence, the nobler and greater the number of those being ruled, the greater the value of wealth.
- 93) One day, it may be elucidated that the veins of wealth course not through underground rock but through the human body, giving off a reddish-purple hue.

### Chapter 4. According to Value
- 143) There's only one way to handle work correctly, and that's to see the entire work as a whole.
- 156) The term 'value' is understood to mean useful to life.