---
date: 2017-09-02
description: Reading James Ryan's 'Wait, What?'
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Wait What?, James Ryan
tags:
- '#WaitWhat?'
- '#ConversationSkills'
- '#Communication'
- '#QuestioningPower'
- '#Reflection'
templateKey: post
title: Wait a Minute, What Did You Say?
---

I can't stand silence and tend to chatter about my thoughts. I'm somewhat verbose. I often regretfully think, "Next time, I should listen more and ask questions." It's because I want to have better conversations.

As a 20-year-old college freshman, I spent a lot of time thinking about how to improve my conversation skills. For example, I prepared typical small talk questions like "Which club are you in?" It was quite effective, allowing our conversation to blend smoothly.

James Ryan's 『Wait, What?』 goes beyond a mere commencement speech, offering deep reflections on the essence of conversation and life. The five questions presented by Ryan can be applied to various situations we face daily.
- The first question, **“Wait, what?”**, encourages avoiding misunderstandings and gaining a clear understanding of the situation. It's the foundation of communication and helps ensure important details aren't missed.
- The second question, **“I wonder…?”**, has the power to spark curiosity. This question leads to the exploration of new possibilities and is the starting point for creative thinking.
- The third question, **“Couldn’t we at least…?”**, offers a clue to compromise in conflict situations, serving as an important tool for opening the way to cooperation. It's very useful when trying to find common ground with others.
- The fourth question, **“How can I help?”**, marks the beginning of true empathy and cooperation. Through this question, we can understand others' needs and offer practical assistance.
- Lastly, **“What truly matters?”** prompts us to reconsider our life's purpose and values. This question guides us to focus on the essentials, avoiding distractions by unimportant things.

It's a concise yet profoundly impactful book.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bW0NguMGIbE?si=TSfH-gAdUBiyFLeq" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>