---
date: 2024-08-20 15:20:00+00:00
description: Reading Matthew Walker's 'Why We Sleep'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#ImportanceOfSleep'
- '#HealthyLiving'
- '#SleepHabits'
- '#WeightLoss'
- '#ExerciseHabits'
templateKey: post
title: Sleep is Important
---
For the past 2-3 years, I've been starting my mornings with early exercise by playing tennis. I would wake up around 5 AM and start exercising by 6, which naturally reduced my sleep time. Although I tried to catch up on sleep over the weekends, this wasn't sustainable. Going to bed after midnight and waking up at 5 AM increasingly took a toll on my body over time.

As is commonly understood, to wake up healthily and early, you need 1) a regular routine and 2) more than 8 hours of sleep. Simply relying on willpower to wake up early was something I could do when I was younger, but it's not something that can be maintained in the long run.

These days, I focus more on going to bed early and getting enough sleep rather than merely waking up quickly. It's okay not to wake up too early in the morning. Prioritizing good sleep is more important than waking up early. You need enough sleep to wake up early, and waking up early without adequate sleep is impossible.

The book has reminded me of the significance of sleep. A representative example is that drowsy driving is much more dangerous than drunk driving. Sleep is a crucial factor not just for driving, but also for intellectual activities, appearance, physical illnesses, and many other aspects.

Let's sleep well.