---
date: 2024-02-10 01:24:14.826000+00:00
description: Johannes Pöyse, reading 'Morning and Evening'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Evening'
- '#Johannes'
- '#LifeInOldAge'
- '#Tennis'
- '#LifeAndDeath'
templateKey: post
title: Evening
---
A boy is born. His name is Johannes. He inherits his grandfather's name. Johannes gets married and has seven children. Time passes, and he becomes an old man, feeling loneliness. His wife Erna, with whom he shared daily life, and his friend Peter, who used to cut each other's hair, have both passed away. He is left alone in a room, greeted by silence. No matter what he does, the house cannot become warm or bright. His body feels heavy and uncomfortable. Even fishing in the sea isn't successful anymore. Objects seem overwhelming and feel weightless. Johannes is left with bony fingers and pale, bluish nails. The coffee he drinks every morning, the cigarettes he smokes, and the bread topped with brown cheese remain the same. He calmly observes the beginning and end of his life.

I have a newborn nephew and parents who worry about their health. I attend weddings and funerals from time to time. As I grow older, I think about life. What will my old age be like? Now that I have just entered my thirties, I find myself reflecting more on love, family, and friends. I didn't do this in my twenties. Among the people I enjoy playing tennis with, many are in their forties. They are young and lively. Naturally, I often think about how nice it would be to keep playing tennis joyfully and healthily even as I age. Sometimes, when I drink during tennis gatherings, I say, "People who play tennis see each other for life." I also cherish and enjoy this gathering so much. It’s as if we are like Johannes and Peter, sharing moments together. However, this too will not last forever.

Life, after all, is inevitably heading towards death and farewell.