---
date: 2021-05-15 14:21:34.706000+00:00
description: Daniel Levitin "The Organized Mind"
image: /img/brain.jpg
tags:
- '#TheNeedForOrganization'
- '#LifeOrganization'
- '#DecisionMaking'
- '#Attention'
- '#StressManagement'
templateKey: post
title: Organization is a Choice
---

When I'm too busy, my life falls apart. During these times, my room is always messy. Laundry piles up, and irregular takeout meals increase. The chaos overwhelms me. I can't find what I want in a messy room. My stress levels rise. I suffer from confusion with too many choices and information. Just like tidying a room, thoughts also need to be organized.

The starting point for organizing the brain should be acknowledging that "the brain cannot perfectly organize everything." We must conserve our limited mental resources within infinite variables. Bezos said that making three decisions a day is enough.

What should we do about the things we couldn't manage in chaos? The book advises us to "settle" on unimportant matters. It's like Zuckerberg wearing the same clothes or Warren Buffett living in the same house for 60 years. They are satisfied with the same clothes and house.

Recently, the context of my tasks at work has increased significantly, including conversations with team members, collaboration with other departments, project management, hands-on work, interviews, and external meetings. Surprisingly, I've found myself completely forgetting tasks. I'm startled by these incidents, which I'm experiencing for the first time. It's a situation where I must use notes or tools. I need a way to organize my thoughts and ensure nothing is overlooked. Organization is necessary.

## Summary
* When your mind is organized, you can make good decisions without much effort.
* Our brains are structured to make a certain number of judgments per day; once we reach that limit, we appear unable to make further judgments regardless of their importance.
* Attention is the most important mental resource for any animal. It helps us decide which aspects of our surrounding environment to address.
* Overcoming the stress of wondering whether you can find what you need immediately provides a sense of physiological comfort. If you can't find something, your mind drifts into a fog of confusion.
* In an age of information overload, bias based on outcomes can save time but can also lead to errors. It's important to be aware of this fact.
* Knowledge that was unbeknownst to be wrong continues to influence judgment even after realizing it's incorrect. Pressing the reset button is impossible. Lawyers are well aware of this, often planting seeds of false ideas in the minds of jurors or judges. (...) All evidence becomes useless, but once-held beliefs continue to obscure their judgment.
* Successful individuals are paradoxically noted to have experienced more failures than those we generally consider failures.
* The best time management technique is to write down everything that captured your attention without exception.

## Related
* [<The Organized Mind> 3-stage Mindset, 5 Organizing Techniques - Brunch](https://brunch.co.kr/@cdo/10)
* [<The Organized Mind>: Techniques for organizing chaotic minds and daily life overwhelmed by information and choice overload in the digital age](https://m.blog.naver.com/PostView.nhn?blogId=yole_one&logNo=220439842463&proxyReferer=https:%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F)
* [The book for people whose brains are overwhelmed with information and choices | Daniel Levitin's The Organized Mind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KaBLjUp8Gn4)