---
date: 2017-04-09
description: Reading Bodo Schäfer's "Money"
image: /img/book/money.jpg
keywords: Money, Bodo Schäfer
layout: post
tags:
- '#ImportanceOfMoney'
- '#SelfReflection'
- '#GoalSetting'
- '#LifePrinciples'
- '#HarmonyInLife'
templateKey: post
title: Wake Up
---
I used to have a negative image of being stingy with money. This image often rationalized my overspending, which I considered an investment. I was avoiding the pain of saving money.

When money becomes a problem in life, you lose a lot. Therefore, money is crucial to maintaining your life. If you can't escape the shadow of money, you won't be able to balance it with other important aspects of life.

After reading this book, I clarified my ambiguous thoughts about money. I reviewed my income and expenses and set small principles. I started preparing so money wouldn't be an issue for what I want to achieve in the future. I reflected on myself from a standpoint of taking responsibility for my life and began to record my daily achievements to build confidence. This book allowed me to reconsider my life's goals, having not clearly set them since I was 20 years old.

---

## Book Summary

### 1. Learn How to Find It Now

- Whether you believe it or not, money changes many aspects of life. Of course, money doesn't solve all of life's problems. But it's also clear that money isn't everything in life. As long as the shadow of money clouds your life, you can't truly be happy. Money provides a foundation to better manage various issues in life. With money, you can meet more people, visit beautiful places, and engage in activities you enjoy. Moreover, money gives you confidence, earning you more recognition from others and allowing you to explore various possibilities in life.
- I believe our lives have roughly five areas: health, money, relationships, emotions, and the meaning of life. These five areas are all equally important.
- It's essential that these five areas of life are harmonized. To achieve this, you need to manage all five areas well. Those with money issues eventually fail to maintain balance in the five areas. Money problems always cast a shadow on other areas. Money is very important for a balanced life.
- Do you know why many people can't do what they truly love? Because they lack money. It's a vicious cycle. Many people can't do what they want because they don't know how to earn money while doing it. But it's nearly impossible to earn money doing something you don't want to do. Eventually, lacking money leads to engaging in work they don't like, and as long as they continue doing such work, they can't earn money either.
- Optimizing life means learning how to effectively use your time, potential, talents, money, and the people around you. Simply put, it means getting the best results from the resources you currently have.

### 2. Only Those Who Take Responsibility Become Wealthy

- There are things you can manage directly and exert influence over (I call this the management area), and things you are interested in but can't influence.
  
- Whatever happens in your personal world, how you react to it and interpret the result is entirely your responsibility.
  
- However, you shouldn't be content with the current size of your management area. Everyone knows from experience that this area can expand.
  
- If you keep believing that problems originate externally and therefore can't be managed by you, that very thought is the biggest problem. As soon as you shift responsibility to situations or others, authority also moves along. Complaining or blaming only confirms your weaknesses. Then your ability to positively influence your situation diminishes and eventually disappears altogether.
  
- As stepping out of your comfort zone becomes natural and you learn to accept each challenge that comes your way as a new and bigger challenge, your management area will rapidly expand.
  
- A ship is the safest when in the harbor. But it wasn't built to stay there. Similarly, we have a desire for safety, but we also have a desire for adventure and change.
  
- Every problem comes with an opportunity for growth. Simply asking, "How should I solve this problem?" is of little use. We should also ask, "What situation needs to be created so that such problems don't arise again?" This new situation means expanding your management area.
  
- Avoiding problems will not lead to wealth and happiness. Those who want more money than others must confront and tackle more problems.
  
- The question "Can I do this?" hides the possibility of giving up. Regardless of everything else, because of this question alone, remnants of doubt remain. The better question is "How should I do this?"
  
- The first question we need to ask is not "Why?" but "How?" "How?" seeks a solution, while "Why?" seeks an excuse. People only get what they look for.
  
- Those who ask "How?" extend beyond their management areas in seeking answers. This question also includes "Why?" On the other hand, "Why?" neither includes "How?" nor directs towards finding a solution.
  
- The right question is "What can I do, what do I know, what possibilities do I have?"
  
- Asking "Who is to blame?" is merely an excuse-seeking move.

- **Most people confuse the point at which they should ask "How?" with "Whether or not to do it?" Everyone knows the importance of quick decisions. Yet many find this difficult. Why is that? Because people ask "How will this be done, how will that be done?" too early. Although "How?" is undoubtedly a good question, it shouldn't be asked at the decision-making point.**
  
- **At the decision-making point, first ask "Should I do it or not?" That includes the question "Why?" Why should it be done? Is there enough reason? At this point, "How?" isn't important. That's a problem for later. But once a decision has been made, you must let go of any lingering doubts about "Should I do it or not?" A small problem should not lead to questioning "Did I make the right decision, should I have chosen another side?" If that happens, no method for solving the problem will come to mind, and you'll remain stuck at the initial question of "Should I do it or not?" We often see people who spend an endless amount of time making decisions, only to change those decisions even faster. The correct order of questioning is as follows:**

1. Why should I do it? Should I do it or not, yes or no?
2. How should I do it? How will I solve this subsequent problem? And why should I not give up?
- We must take responsibility not only for what we do but also for what we don't do.
  
- Most people are quite frivolous about money matters. After all, they couldn't have learned such matters anywhere.
  
- If carelessness about money lands you in a difficult situation, that's precisely when money becomes more important than necessary. In other words, you must be careful that money doesn't occupy too high a position in your life. For that reason alone, you should take responsibility for money at all times.
  
- There are things you can't help through your power. However, at the very least, you can decide how to interpret such things and how to respond. By doing so, you always have "authority."

### 3. Becoming Rich is Not a Miracle

- There are four must-do things to create miracles, which I call the decathlon for constant learning and growth.
- When we cease to grow, we die. Growth is life. Continuously learning and growing is the clearest way to feel alive and is the path to becoming the best version of yourself.

#### Event 1: Reading Books

- A wise man once said, "A person is the sum of the books they have read." Why is reading important? First, because it leads to ideas.
- Another reason reading is important is that our income increases in proportion to the amount of books we read.
- When you meet someone you like or are interested in, don't waste time on small talk; use that time. Ask them to recommend two or three books they enjoyed. Further, ask why they liked those books. You will soon receive an excellent digest for free from a competent reader.

#### Event 2: Writing Your Own Success Journal

- It's a book solely for you. Everyone needs to record their success journal daily. Document every achievement without omission. If you kept promises well, completed tasks successfully, or received compliments and gratitude from others, record them all.
- Unfortunately, our brains aren't very reliable. They remember our mistakes and failures about ten times more easily and longer than successes. Thus, we often hold a much worse image of ourselves than actual.
- Before starting my day, I record my success journal and systematically infuse confidence within myself.
- Confidence is not coincidentally gained, and its importance can't be overstated. Whether we stop or keep going always depends on whether we have the confidence to move to the next step.
- Immediately think about the achievements you made yesterday or today. What did you finish, who did you help, and from whom did you receive praise?
- We sometimes think we can't take decisive steps to the next level because of comfort or a sense of self-sufficiency. But that's not true. Comfort is just an excuse, when in fact, we don't believe in our own success.

#### Event 3: Attending Seminars

- It's natural to learn better by using more senses.
- I had made a rule to attend seminars at least four times a year, even when I had little money early on.

#### Event 4: Finding Role Models

- No book or study directly and strongly influences our self-image more than the people around us.
- We grow when we're surrounded by those better than us. Conversely, we stagnate when surrounded by those lesser. Yet, we underestimate this fact because we overestimate ourselves as uniquely independent beings.

### 4. Why Can't People Become Rich?

- We tend to set big goals when in a good mood and lower goals when not. However, our subconscious acts in a continuous and repetitive manner. Therefore, long-term goals should be changed as little as possible. The bigger the goal, the less likely it is to change. You've probably considered this issue: should I set small realistic goals or build a grand palace in the sky? In my opinion, big goals are more achievable than small ones. Let me explain why.
- First, assume you've set small goals. When problems arise, they quickly block your view of these goals.
- Now assume you've set very big goals instead. In this case, even if problems arise, they do not completely block your view towards the goals. Thus, you won't miss what you do and why you do, what you're aiming for.
- "Set a goal you cannot achieve in your lifetime."
- There is a big difference between playing to win and playing not to lose.

### 5. What Really Is Money to You?

- Are you satisfied with your beliefs about money? If you don't think money is beautiful or good, you can't become rich no matter how much you want to earn money. Therefore, what's important is cultivating beliefs that help you achieve what you want.
- Along the way, we face difficulties making moral judgments for various reasons. One of them is the desire for consistency.
- "Consistency is not an absolute virtue. If today I have a different insight from yesterday, wouldn't changing direction be more consistent? In doing so, I may lose consistency with the past but gain more consistency with the truth. Consistency keeps truth in alignment with recognized truth."
- Important for us is the tendency for people to measure everything by rights and wrongs. The distinction of good and evil is purely human-made. In nature, there is no such thing.
- Three beliefs are necessary to reach economic goals.
1. Change is necessary.
2. I must change it.
3. I can change it.

### 6. Let's Get Out of Debt

- Not all debts are the same. Borrowing to buy a house is worth it. (...) I implore you never to incur debts for consumption. Remember, "What we want isn't all we need."
- The difference lies in how pain and pleasure are defined. And crucial is our belief system. It's our belief system that determines when we feel pain or pleasure. (...) We act based not on logical insights and resolutions but on beliefs. Changing our beliefs changes our economic situations.
- Restraint is strength. Restraint draws out the boundless ability within us.
- Distance yourself from your situation. Don't take problems too seriously. Losing a game doesn't mean death. Likewise, having debt doesn't mean death. Don't take yourself too seriously.

### 7. How to Increase Income

- "Those who work all day have no time to make money." – John D. Rockefeller
- I often hear people complain, "I receive too little compared to my abilities." But this statement is incorrect. To put it straight, here it is: if you bring in more earnings, you can receive more.
- Be paid for working 8 hours but work 10. Earn the company more money. Don't worry about serving the company "too much." Even if the company doesn't pay you for the extra work, continue anyway. Because in return, you will learn the working ways of successful people.
- It's the ability to make routine tasks into urgent affairs. Set your motto as "as soon as possible." (...) You might say, "Doing things fast might cause mistakes." That's right. (...) The issue isn't perfection. Perfection means stagnation. What's important is originality. Fear of errors makes people try to do everything right. But those who aren't afraid of making mistakes create new things.
- Income doesn't equate to wealth. Many don't know what it means to be rich. High earnings don't automatically make you rich. Generally, as income rises, living standards improve. But more is needed.

### 8. Pay Yourself Through Savings

- There are many reasons to save. However, there are four main reasons many people don't save.
  - They think they don't need to save now because they'll earn a lot later.
  - They want to live comfortably now, thinking saving is hard and confining.
  - They don't see saving as significant, believing this mindset never changes.
  - They think low interest rates and inflation make saving a loss.
- Let's examine these four reasons:
  - People become rich through saving, not income.
  - Saving is fun and easy, anyone can do it.
  - Beliefs and attitudes towards saving can change anytime.
  - Saving makes you a millionaire. Without strain, you can achieve 12% or more returns, where inflation even aids.

### 9. The Miracle of Compound Interest

- Knowing the power of compound interest yet not using it irresponsibly ignores the law of capital growth.
- Now is the time to transform "capitalism for the few" into capitalism benefiting all. You have a personal responsibility to amass wealth and show others your example.

### 10. Why Grow Your Money

- Growing money should involve investing, not speculating. Just saving or placing money somewhere doesn't count as investment.

### 11. Basic Principles of Investment

- The following differences are essential to know:
1. The difference between investment and speculation
2. The difference between parking money and investing money
3. Differences among three types of investment methods
4. The difference between a common investor and a professional investor
- Unless money returns to your hand, you may have 'parked' the money somewhere but haven't invested it.
- "Ultimately, investment should mean regular extraction of money from where you've invested. Those who only hold money when they sell what they've bought aren't investors but speculators."
- Stocks and stock funds are not investments.
- Many might say, "I expected regular income from stocks and funds." But they overlook one fact. Stocks are essentially speculative, whatever anyone says. Don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that stocks and stock funds are bad. Quite the opposite. We should never disregard stocks. Furthermore, stocks are the foundational framework maintaining our entire economic system. Everything is built on this framework.
- Therefore, even when speculating, you should commit only a part of your wealth.
- Tangible assets surpass the value of monetary assets.
- "Don't play not to lose; play to win." To put it differently, "Don't save to become poor; grow your money."
- We should distribute our money into both monetary and tangible assets. Since we can't predict which will thrive best among them, diversify both monetary and tangible assets. Diversify and further diversify, whether you have much or little money.
- Regardless of circumstances, allocate a portion of your wealth to stocks or stock funds. Even if you are committed to the path of an investor, the "speculating in stocks or funds" route is unavoidable.
- If genuinely seeking the path of an investor, you must read a lot, watch, listen, and learn a lot from those already successful.

### 12. The Three Steps to Financial Independence

- Here are three reasons why small goals are beneficial:
1. Setting the first goal small allows quicker achievement.
2. If you can live with less expense, you can save more and reduce the time to secure an economic airbag.
3. Because the set goal is right in front of you, you can push through till the end.
- Are you prepared to pay the price that everyone who has wanted wealth and happiness has inevitably paid? If you have that resolution, promise yourself. Don't be satisfied with anything less than the best.
- Saying "I'll decide later" deceives oneself. If you can't make a decision now, that itself is already your decision. You decided to leave everything as it is now, changing nothing. And resolved to drift away from your goals. So decide right now!
- What's crucial is not becoming someone who never makes mistakes but rather someone who never gives up.

### 13. Build a Network to Grow Your Wealth

- Most important is creating situations that force you towards success.
- Our life continuously utilizes other people. We also play roles for them, either as models or as warnings.
- This world comprises numerous contrasting elements like night and day, summer and winter, the sun and the moon, all forming one whole. These aren't mutually exclusive but are complementary.
- Repeated contemplation makes me realize that finding tasks to pour my passion and striving is important.
- 99% of all successful people had counselors.
- Only the best disciple gets the best counselor. To get the best counselor in your field right away, you must first possess the requisite qualities.
- Counselors want to see your determination. (...) They don't want to hear "what you mean" but "how you say it."
- A counselor's time is more precious and expensive than yours. Therefore, always check before meeting whether the meeting is necessary.
- Before questioning, consider if you can find the answer yourself and think how the counselor might respond. Most answers emerge at this stage.

### 14. It Is More Blessed to Give Than to Receive

- The world is full of worries. Unfair distribution threatens peace and happiness. The path toward distributive justice is shrouded in darkness, planting seeds of many conflicts. Each signpost illuminating that path is precious. The world needs people to play the role of those signposts.