---
date: 2023-12-31 08:20:59.323000+00:00
description: Reading Lulu Miller's "Why Fish Don't Exist"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Concept'
- '#FishClassification'
- '#MeaningOfExistence'
- '#Indestructible'
- '#HumanWill'
templateKey: post
title: An Eternal Story That May Never Exist
---

I often think about words. For example, thoughts like "what conditions must be met to call it a 'school'" occur to me. Calling a red brick building a school seems odd, and a teaching space could also be an academy.

Taxonomist David Starr Jordan names fish, finds meaning, and classifies them. One day, he loses all his classified specimens due to an earthquake. The world he created by naming fish collapses in an instant. His transcendent actions and will, pushing forward calmly without despair, are neither positive nor negative — they simply are.

> "The Indestructible Thing"
>
> Someone who painstakingly built something precious and intricate… only to see it all collapse… Where did that person find the will to keep going? Whether they wanted to or not, what makes someone persist — that deepest core within every person is what Kafka called ‘the indestructible thing.’ The indestructible thing is entirely unrelated to optimism. Compared to optimism, it is far more profound and much less self-aware.
> (....)
> I liked the concept of the indestructible thing. It was an astonishing idea because it allows me not to have to answer the question of whether it is insane to pursue an unrealistic goal.
>
> One of Jordan's particularly double-edged talents is his ability to convince himself he's doing the right thing and then relentlessly pursue that goal with seemingly infinite energy.

The category of fish, the category he overcame hardships to create, the category to which he dedicated his life, has never truly existed. Is he creating a story that will never exist, an eternal story?