---
date: 2018-04-17
description: Reflections on Jim Collins' 'Good to Great'
image: /img/book/good2great.png
tags:
- '#CorporateGrowth'
- '#Level5Leadership'
- '#PeopleFirstThenGoals'
- '#HedgehogConcept'
- '#CultureOfDiscipline'
templateKey: post
title: Good Is the Enemy of Great
---

This book is an outstanding study analyzing how companies can achieve sustainable greatness beyond just being good. Particularly, the concept of Level 5 Leadership is one of the book's most significant insights, redefining the qualities and behaviors of leaders that drive organizational success.

Level 5 Leadership is a leadership type that combines two opposing characteristics. These leaders possess humility as well as a strong will. They do not seek personal glory and prioritize the organization's long-term success. Level 5 leaders focus on maximizing their team's potential without putting themselves in the spotlight. They center on organizational success, take responsibility for failures, and credit the team for successes. Such leadership is a critical driving force for continuous growth and success of an organization.

Another key insight from this book is the approach of 'first who, then what.' Great companies first find the right people, place them in the right positions, and only then deliberate on strategies. This emphasizes the importance of people over strategy, suggesting that having the right talent is the most critical asset to realize an organization's vision.

The 'Hedgehog Concept' is a principle that defines what a company should focus on. It involves finding the intersection of what a company can be the best at, what drives its economic engine, and what it is passionate about, and focusing on that strategy. This strategy clarifies the company's direction, reduces unnecessary efforts, and enables continuous growth.

The book also emphasizes the importance of a culture of discipline and the technology accelerators. A disciplined organization can sustain high performance without external pressures, and technology serves to support this discipline. It is a crucial factor that accelerates the transformation by correctly using innovative tools.

## Summary

- 33 The leaders who took their companies from good to great seemed like people from another planet. Quiet, reserved, and even shy, these leaders displayed a paradoxical blend of personal humility and professional will.

- 49 The view that "leadership is the answer to everything" is the modern-day version of the "God is the answer to everything" perspective that set back our scientific understanding of the physical world in the Dark Ages.

- 69 Level 5 leaders look out the window to attribute success to factors other than themselves when things go well. They look in the mirror to take responsibility when things don’t go well, never blaming bad luck.

- 79 The executives who ignited transformations from good to great did not first figure out where to drive the bus and then get people on it. Instead, they first got the right people on the bus (and the wrong people off the bus) and then figured out where to drive it.

- 95 "Rigorous, not ruthless" means that the best people can fully devote themselves to their work without worrying about their positions.

- 127 When leaders become the primary reality rather than the reality itself, they hold the secret to transforming into a mediocre or worse company.

- 131 Leaders of companies that transitioned from good to great behaved like Socratic guides, prioritizing a single purpose in their questioning: to understand the truth.

- 135 Establishing an atmosphere where truths can be heard without blame requires endurance in the analytic process.

- 149 The Stockdale Paradox is about never losing faith in prevailing in the end despite difficulties while simultaneously confronting the most brutal facts of your current reality.

- 157 Hedgehogs see what is essential and ignore the rest.

- 193 To deeply understand the intersecting three circles and convert them into a simple, clear concept (the Hedgehog Concept), consider: "what you are deeply passionate about," "what you can be best in the world at," and "what drives your economic engine."

- 207 Companies that made the leap from good to great built a consistent system with clear constraints but also provided freedom and responsibility within that system. They hired self-disciplined people who did not need to be managed extensively.

- 265 Revolutionize means to turn the wheel. - Igor Stravinsky

- 270 From the outside, transitions appear dramatic and revolutionary. However, from the inside, they feel more akin to the development of an organism.

- 326 The real issue is not "Why be great?" but rather "What work will make you want to become great?" If you ever ask yourself, "Why should we try to be great when we're already successful enough?" you are likely doing something that doesn't fit well.