---
date: 2021-02-28 11:06:23.033000+00:00
description: After reading Arbinger Institute's 'The Anatomy of Peace'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Authenticity'
- '#Self-betrayal'
- '#MyInTheBox'
- '#HumanRelationships'
- '#Self-justification'
templateKey: post
title: Authenticity and Consideration
---

There are times when we forget kindness and consideration. For example, turning a blind eye to someone running towards the elevator from afar. The book refers to this as "self-betrayal." We often justify self-betrayal by distorting the situation, which the book calls being "in the box." Realizing and acknowledging that there might be a problem with oneself could be the first step to getting out of the box.

I believe that thoughts and sincerity are well communicated between people. In other words, putting genuine energy into what should be done naturally shows. This is not about tactics or skills but rather the realm of intuition. It seems that all it takes is the sincerity that is not distorted, the courage to stop self-deception, and the energy to maintain them.

Am I in the box? Just reflecting on this once in a while makes this book worthwhile.

## Summary
* "Not realizing that there is a problem within me."
* Whether you are showing 'genuine concern' in relationships is more important than words or actions.
* Often, you can notice how others feel about you.
* When treating each other as valuable 'humans' like oneself and working continuously, one can see how much smarter a smart person can become, how much more competent.
* When I'm in the box, I subconsciously want people to create problems. It allows me to blame them and feel a sense of shallow self-justification. I actually need problems.

**Self-Betrayal**

1. It is called self-betrayal when you act against what you feel you should do for others.
2. When I commit self-betrayal, I start to see the world in ways that justify my self-betrayal.
3. Seeing the world in ways that justify myself distorts my view of the facts.
4. When self-betraying, I get inside the box.
5. Over time, some boxes become my traits, and I carry them habitually.
6. By being in the box, I lead others to get in their boxes.
7. Inside the box, we provoke each other to mistreat and mutually justify ourselves. We conspire to give each other reasons to stay in the box.

**Useless Things Inside the Box**

1. Trying to change other people
2. Doing your best to accommodate others
3. Leaving behind
4. Communication
5. Using new skills or techniques
6. Changing my behavior