---
date: 2024-12-22 15:33:00+00:00
description: After reading David Travis and Philip Hodgson's 『Think like a ux researcher』
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#customer-centric'
- '#identifying-needs'
- '#customer-research'
- '#questions-and-interpretation'
- '#user-needs'
templateKey: post
title: Questions and Interpretation
---

To create change in the world, you need to start by understanding your customer. That's why we talk to customers. What should we ask customers? How can we explore customer needs before a specific service or product is launched? What approach is necessary to understand a customer's real needs? 

It's rare for customers to have their needs clearly defined. The task is to interpret and concretize those needs. Discovering unexpressed needs and connecting them to practical solutions is a creative process. A common mistake is focusing on solutions. However, this book emphasizes that **thinking starting from needs** represents true customer-centric thinking.

In the process of reading and discussing the book, we talked about questions like, "How would you feel if this existed?/ Would you use it?" The "this" imagined by the questioner can be vastly different from what the responder envisions, leading to meaningless conversations. Instead, you should ask questions that help understand the person, their environment, purpose, and the problems they face. This was a simple yet profound lesson.

When compiling research, you need to differentiate between facts and opinions, and between observation and interpretation. Observing the problems users face or the actions they take is distinct from adding interpretations based on this. Observations are the objective foundation, while interpretations are actions to identify user needs based on observations. Confusing these two can easily lead to blurred directions.

Rather than focusing on the research methodology, I reflected on how to formulate questions, understand, and communicate them fundamentally.

## Memorable Parts

## Chapter 1: Preparation
- People do not have trustworthy insights into their mental processes, so asking them what they want is meaningless. It's useless to ask people what they like or dislike, or what they think they'll do in the future.
- UX research is often assigned to one person in a team. That person becomes the advocate for user needs and acts as the team's "expert" on users. This approach is not good for conducting research. It's not just because the UX researcher doesn't know all the answers; it fails because it encourages the development team to delegate all responsibility for understanding users to one person. One way to prevent this sin from occurring in a project is to encourage all team members to have "exposure hours." Research indicates that the most effective development teams spend at least two hours every six weeks observing users. (e.g., field visits or usability testing).
- Personas don't necessarily have to be user-centric. User-centered design isn't about personas. In fact, personas aren't significantly important. The goal should not be to create personas; instead, it should be to understand users' needs, goals, and motivations.
- In the US, 93% of drivers say they are better than average drivers, and 88% say they are safer than average drivers. Today, nearly all companies claim to prioritize user experience, but many are actually disconnected from it.
- Around 8% of the most mature companies take a different approach. These companies demand criticism. They achieve this by observing experiences instead of demanding personal statements.

## Chapter 2: Planning User Experience Research
- "If given 20 days to solve a problem, I'd spend 19 days defining it."
- "Assumptions are good, but finding out is better."
- To steer away from solutions, ask questions like:
  - What issue do you want X to resolve? What challenges will arise if it doesn’t exist?
  - If you were to design the best conceivable X, what problems would it solve?
- Don't attack the weaknesses of stakeholders. The aim is to gather information, not to expose their poor handling.
- To distinguish digital skill levels, don't ask directly. Instead, inquire about what they do online or whether they receive help.
- Recruit based on behavior, not demographics. Assumptions based on demographics can be incorrect. Moreover, a large sample size is needed to achieve representation across demographics, possibly resulting in a lack of representation.
  - There is an 85% probability of identifying an issue affecting 30% of users with five participants.
  - Instead, conduct research repeatedly. The goal of research is not to deliver a representative sample but rather to deliver research itself.
  - To increase the likelihood of discovering user problems:
    - Include individuals likely to have problems in your sample,
    - Assign more tasks to a single participant,
    - Increase the number of observers (as there is a considerable chance observers can miss things).
- Instead of telling someone to try something, assign them specific tasks.

## Chapter 3: Conducting User Experience Research
- What goals do users aim to achieve? How do they currently do this, and what challenges or likes do they have? What temporary solutions are they using?
- For usability tasks, give treasure hunt tasks (e.g., find bags for a trip overseas).
- Avoid the trap of blindly answering participant questions during the research process by saying, "Pretend I'm not here."

## Chapter 4: Analyzing User Experience Research
- Most ideas fail, and the reason for failure is often known within the company’s leadership. Factors range from marketing, target group, positioning, campaign awareness, and pricing strategy. A "collective belief" influences the process.
- Require facts and evidence, discussing with evidence rather than personal preferences or opinions. Even authorities can be wrong, and it's crucial to develop alternative ideas. Enter with an open mind and discuss alternatives quantitatively. Evidence is different from opinion.
- Remember "Occam's Razor" when deriving solutions. When faced with two hypotheses, choose the simpler one and conduct experiments to test this hypothesis.
- A research report should start with "Why should you believe your claims? How valid and reliable is this evidence?"
- When creating personas, consider facts, behaviors, and needs separately. Avoid over-inserting refined personal perspectives.
- Prioritize usability issues based on whether they are critical to completion rates, affect many people, or have high frequency.
- Usability tests cannot enhance usability; you must consider fundamental issues.
- Research is most effective when it involves triangulation. Quantitative data tell us what people do, while qualitative data explain why they do it.

## Chapter 5: Persuading People to Take Action on User Experience Research Results
- To explain the difference between usability and user experience, introduce user journey maps. They clarify that what users aim to achieve is much greater than just a web/app/service.
- When considering design ideas, think about replacing, combining, modifying, expanding, minimizing, repurposing, eliminating, or rearranging them.

## Chapter 6: Finding a Career in the User Experience Field
- User Experience practitioners need skills in needs research, usability evaluation, information architecture, interaction/visual design, technical writing, and prototyping.
- Alongside practical skills, project management (from a process perspective) and sales (as research eventually becomes a proposal) skills are essential.
- Assist the team in understanding users. Help the team understand user tasks. Conducting usability testing is practical in encouraging organizational participation.