---
date: 2017-11-29
description: Brad Stone, "Amazon, Sells Everything in the World"
keywords: Amazon,Sells Everything,Bezos
tags:
- '#Amazon'
- '#JeffBezos'
- '#ManagementStyle'
- '#Tenacity'
- '#CorporateCulture'
templateKey: post
title: Tenacity
---

Many people speak about flexibility and freedom in corporate culture. Google is often cited as an example. However, Amazon seems to be different. Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, is known for his very aggressive management style. The book repeatedly mentions Jeff Bezos's anger. Employees left the company because they couldn't withstand it.

Bezos drives forward. Amazon has brought about great change and value in the world through a vertical and aggressive approach. Reading this book, I realized again that there is no set way to achieve results.

Recently, I talked with people about who should run a business. Everyone agreed that a person with strong determination for success should be in business. Lately, I've looked down on inefficient determination. But after reading this book, I reconsidered tenacity. I felt how important it truly is. Honestly, I wondered if I lacked the capability or stamina to have such determination. While reading this book, I felt Bezos's tenacity.

## Takeaways

- PowerPoint or slide presentations are never used in meetings. Instead, employees must write their presentations in a six-page prose format. Bezos believes this method fosters critical thinking. When developing a new product, they draft documents in the style of a press release. This draft proposal should include what customers will hear when they first encounter the product.

- He claims to have devised a 'regret minimization framework' for deciding the next steps at life's crossroads. "When busy with many things, you can lose the big picture because of small matters. When you look back at life at 80, you won't regret resigning just before the bonus season in 1994. At an older age, those aren't the things you consider important.

- Page 59) He possessed extraordinary confidence and was more stubborn than expected, harboring the outrageous belief that employees would work tirelessly and continue to perform heroic acts for the company. He did not reveal his ambitions and plans, keeping most of them secret, even from Kathren.

- Page 115) "Jeff didn't believe in work-life balance. He believed in work-life harmony. The thought that everything can be done all at once."

- Page 210) "Conversation is a sign of dysfunction. It means people aren't working organically. What we need to do is reduce inter-departmental communication, not increase it."

- Page 212) Each team had to propose their 'fitness function.' A fitness function is a straightforward equation that measures performance without ambiguity.

- Page 213) The idea of a fitness function seemed particularly to conflict with basic human nature. It is uncomfortable to set criteria by which you might later be harshly judged.

- Page 219) He wanted people who think deeply and put effort into expressing their thoughts persuasively. He liked to encourage employees by saying, "I don't want this place to turn into a country club. We're wrestling with tough challenges. This is not a place to work leisurely and retire."

- Page 328) "Jeff has a couple of superior qualities compared to any boss I've served before. One is embracing the truth. Many people talk about the truth, but when it comes time to make decisions, the most significant truths are often not considered. Secondly, he is not bound by conventional thinking. What's surprising is that he only adheres to physical laws, which even he can't change. But otherwise, everything was negotiable."

- Page 329) Jim Collins said that acquiring other companies should happen after a virtuous cycle has fully settled, not to create a flywheel but to accelerate it.

- Page 352) Missionaries venturing into a new world work towards noble goals to make the world a better place. In contrast, mercenaries work for money and power, ruthlessly dealing with anyone in their way. For Bezos, there was no doubt about which side Amazon belonged to. "If I had to choose between the two, I would always choose a missionary over a mercenary. Ironically, it turns out that missionaries end up making more money."