---
date: 2024-09-18 12:21:00+00:00
description: Overview of bonds
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Bonds'
- '#FinancialInvestment'
- '#GovernmentBonds'
- '#Portfolio'
- '#LongTermInvestment'
templateKey: post
title: Bonds
---

**What are bonds?:** Bonds are certificates in which the issuer promises to repay the principal and interest over a certain period. Bonds are called fixed income in English because the money to be received in the future is fixed.

**Factors determining bond prices:** The interest on bonds is proportional to the risk that the debtor will not be able to repay the money. The higher the risk of not getting the money back, the more interest is naturally expected from the lender's perspective. From a risk standpoint, the duration of a bond also affects interest and bonds. The longer the repayment period of the amount to be repaid, the more exposure there is to risks such as inflation, interest rate fluctuations, and the probability of default. Therefore, more interest is demanded.

[Price and interest rate of bonds]: The price of a bond may differ from the amount of money that will be received from it. Suppose, in an extreme example, the interest rate is 0% and the principal is received at a specific future point. Isn't that strange? Even a simple deposit grows with interest, so relatively speaking, the value of money falls, which feels like a loss. That's why interest is received. Once the principal and interest are set, it may or may not be a loss depending on the interest rate. The appeal of a bond changes depending on the constantly changing interest rate, which is reflected in the bond's price. The supply and demand for the bond also determine its price. That is, the market, as in the case of goods, determines the price of bonds.

[Government bonds]: From such a perspective, government-issued bonds (government bonds) are the safest. The yield on government bonds is generally lower than all other financial returns. Therefore, the yield on government bonds can be seen as an indicator of overall financial products. Governments may also urgently need money, and just issuing currency can pose an inflation risk, so they issue bonds as a measure.

[Significance of bond positions]: Why should bonds be part of a portfolio? Wouldn't it be better to invest all assets in stocks? There are two reasons why I think bonds should be included. The first is that bonds become 'spare money' during long-term investment. Here, 'spare' refers to the cash portion of my assets. If someone with 100 million won in cash invests 1 million won in stocks, even if that 1 million won becomes zero, that person doesn't lose their 'spare.' However, there is an underlying assumption that bonds should be structured akin to a deposit, such as short-term government bonds. The second reason is that when stocks result in a loss, bond yields can compensate for that loss. It's important to remember that the stocks chosen aren't always the right answer. To put it extremely simply, it's about reducing risk. If volatility and risk are high, people cannot endure. Do you want to grow with the stock market? You need to survive in the stock market. Therefore, to not lose and stay continuously, reducing risk is realistic. The bonds being referred to are short-term government bonds and high-quality bonds. They are not long-term bonds that are close to stocks. Think of them as deposits that offer a little more interest.

[How much bonds should you own]: How much should you include bonds in your portfolio? Warren Buffett doesn't prefer bonds. However, it is known that he advised that the money left for his wife in his will should be invested with about 10% in U.S. short-term government bonds and 90% in the S&P 500 index. John C. Bogle, the first CEO of Vanguard Group and founder of the index fund, advised that one's age should determine the percentage of bonds and stocks. If you are 30 years old, then it's 30%. The All Weather Portfolio suggests about 40% long-term government bonds, 15% medium-term government bonds, and one-third in cash (bonds, safe assets) according to Talmudic advice. Benjamin Graham's The Intelligent Investor recommends a proportion of about 25% to 75%.

[Bond-related indicators]: Key interest rates, inflation (consumer price index, producer price index), government bond yields (U.S. 10-year bond yield, bond spread) should be examined. Additionally, while credit spreads, Fed statements, GDP growth rates, and other indicators can be observed, this isn't for bond trading. Therefore, it's better to check the key interest rate, consumer price index, and U.S. 10-year bond yield. ([Overview of Korea 10-year bond yield](https://kr.investing.com/rates-bonds/south-korea-10-year-bond-yield), [Korean Bank base rate changes](https://www.bok.or.kr/portal/singl/baseRate/list.do?dataSeCd=01&menuNo=200643))

[What should I do?]: Based on short-term bonds (Vanguard U.S. Short-Term Bond ETF, BSV), let's aim to own 10% of the total assets within a year in bonds. Currently, a significant portion of my assets is invested in individual stocks categorized as "growth stocks," which requires judgment. Additionally, considering whether low-interest company loans should be repaid, it seems realistic to first have about 10% in bonds.

I also recommend watching [Shuka's easy bond explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vq9SZiJgzJ8).