---
date: 2023-01-06 00:11:54.051000+00:00
description: Reading Ray Dalio's "Principles"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#RayDalio'
- '#Principles'
- '#Growth'
- '#GoalSetting'
- '#OpenMindedThinking'
templateKey: post
title: Whip Yourself
---

I reread Ray Dalio's Principles. As I get older, I find myself wanting to stay in my comfort zone using "maturity" as an excuse. This is when I need to whip myself even more. There are no great secrets. Let's revisit the obvious principles. The book introduces principles for life and work. I focused on the principles for life as I read it.

Look at your weaknesses and reality objectively, as if you were handling a machine, and take responsibility for the results. Don't get too hung up on one-dimensional results. When working out, it's natural for your body to hurt in a one-dimensional way. However, in the long run, your body will improve in a two-dimensional way. Think about the refreshing feeling after exercising. Pain occurs when you reach your limits. If you use this well, you can progress and grow.

The five steps are "goal - problem - diagnosis - plan - execution." Clearly define your goals. Avoid mixing problems or plans with your goals. Also, it's not good for your goals to be optimized by considering subsequent steps. If goals are combined with problems from the start, then the goals have to change every time the problem changes. Goals should not be changed because you think they are unachievable. Once you set a goal, somehow your plan and execution should move towards achieving it. On the other hand, reflect on whether you set goals that are too easy to achieve. It’s important to find a path to bold goals.

Do not try to hide the state of not knowing the answer. There's no need to waste time pretending there are solutions. You cannot do everything well, and weaknesses and shortcomings are rather the obstacles to overcome in achieving goals. The answer doesn't have to be within you. In fact, thinking the answer lies within is risky. Let go of the knowledge of knowing something and embrace openness. You need to separate coming up with answers from gathering information and finding solutions. If you decide on the answer first and then look for solutions, you won't be able to find better ones. Usually, ego or stubbornness is hard to break unless you make an extreme effort towards open-minded thinking. This is why you have to think much more openly than you are inclined to do.

People have different dispositions and accordingly, their brains are completely different. You must understand that others think differently from you. As a leader, understanding various dispositions well is crucial for achieving goals. People who are goal-oriented and those who are task-oriented, abstract thinkers and concrete thinkers—these seemingly dichotomous brain characteristics must be well understood.

Decision-making is about learning and deciding. Learn. The biggest threat to good decision-making is harmful emotions. When you look back far into the future, many things turn out to be nothing. There's no need to be overly emotional by overinterpreting a single event. Integrate various series of events and make your decision. Such decisions happen mechanically. Also, distinguish between what you want to do and what you have to do.