---
date: 2020-07-05 13:29:48.855000+00:00
description: Reflecting on "How Philosophy Becomes a Weapon in Life" by Shuu Yamaguchi
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Philosophy'
- '#Reading'
- '#WeaponForLife'
- '#ClearSummary'
- '#MeaningAttribution'
templateKey: post
title: Philosophy Becomes a Weapon in Life
---

During the entrance exam for a special high school, I was very anxious. After the exam, I wanted to study more leisurely. So, I attended a book discussion academy. We read and discussed philosophy books. There were moments of insight. Afterwards, I occasionally read philosophy books. In high school, I read the philosophical novel "Sophie's World," and in university, I took philosophy classes and read the classics.

After starting work, I couldn't read philosophy books. Then, by chance, I purchased "How Philosophy Becomes a Weapon in Life." This book briefly introduced various philosophical thoughts. It was good to read during my commute. The short, quick readings on various topics kept my interest.

I feel joy when a complex thought is clearly and simply summarized. It was the same while reading this book. Examining the concept of ressentiment allowed me to reflect on my own feelings of inferiority. Ressentiment is defined as a mix of jealousy, resentment, hatred, and inferiority felt by those in a weaker position towards the strong, akin to envy. It's similar to Aesop's fable where the fox, unable to reach the grapes it wants, says, "Surely, these grapes are very sour, who would eat them?" I also sometimes unnecessarily try to belittle something. For example, although having more money is good, I sometimes unreasonably deny its importance. It's just that I'm not getting as much as I desire, so I choose to ignore it, saving face.

I was also impressed by Nassim Taleb's 'Antisoviet-Harvard Delusion'. It discusses how a clear cause-and-effect mindset could actually be intellectual arrogance. It suggests trying to act more on intuition or spontaneously instead of solely logical thinking. Chasing after the seemingly optimal path with excessive rationality could, in fact, make a system more vulnerable. Similarly, it introduces the concept of 'deconstruction' to break free from binary frameworks. It allowed me to reflect on whether I'm too fixated on structured thinking.

Philosophy truly becomes a weapon in life. For me, attribution of meaning is important in any matter. Even the decision not to attribute meaning requires an attribution of meaning. Assigning meaning and thought guides action. Thoughts motivate me. Hence, it's beneficial to explore diverse thoughts. This book allowed me to read ideas that have been historically recognized, which was enriching.