---
date: 2024-05-05 15:43:00+00:00
description: Reflection on reading 'Hobbies Will Save Us' by Bang Gu-seok
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Hobbies'
- '#Preferences'
- '#LifeEnergy'
- '#LifestyleArrangement'
- '#SelfImprovement'
templateKey: post
title: Hobbies Shape Preferences
---

Hobbies shape preferences. I want to be someone with distinct preferences. I want to be excited and invigorated when my favorite singer releases new music. Life is not solely about being intensely practical and calculated. Vitality and fun are important too. It's about pressing forward quietly despite difficulties, working hard, and balancing that with a lifestyle filled with preferences and vigor. I don't know if it's possible.

There were many parts of the book that resonated with me. Especially the story of feeling regret over not being able to swim in the sea while traveling, leading to taking swimming lessons upon returning to Korea. I, too, visited the Mediterranean beaches several times last year but felt a great sense of regret because I couldn't swim.

The story about changing the arrangement of a workspace was also intriguing. It was mentioned that in certain Japanese stores, even if the items for sale don't change, the layout of the store is constantly altered. This creates a sense of newness for both the employees and the customers. I completely agree. It made me think that I should slightly change the arrangement of my room at least once per quarter. Even if it's not a full rearrangement, it would be good to at least take items out, dust them off, and make small changes.

As people age, their worlds tend to narrow. It's said that after a certain age, people stop listening to new music and just stick to the songs they know. This isn't just a story about music, of course. Hobbies are inherently based on pure curiosity and enjoyment, so they could be more practical in this sense, and they will enrich my life by adding to my preferences and energy. This energy seems like it would be passed on to the people I meet and have a significant impact on my entire life.

A friend who interned at my company recommended this book. After reading it, I rearranged the furniture in my room.