---
date: 2024-10-06 22:32:00+00:00
description: Reading Shoichi Horiuchi's 'Tennis Strategy Textbook'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#Tennis'
- '#Sports'
- '#Strategy'
- '#Serve'
- '#Stroke'
templateKey: post
title: Introduction to Tennis Strategy
---

Before getting into strategy, with my lack of skill and fitness, it's hard for me to think beyond the stroke. I'm busy just returning the ball. However, sometimes I feel like I'm engaging in a battle of wits with my opponent. While reading the book, I could imagine exchanging shots. It's not about hitting an aggressive straight shot and watching, but running to my open court and preparing for the receive.

Summary
- It's important to put in a first serve. Aim for a success rate of over 60%. You should get in more than 4 out of every 6 serves. Be conscious of this probability. If you succeed in putting in the first 2 first serves, you can aim for a slightly stronger serve on the third.
- On the other hand, aim to score at least two points with your serve in an entire game. If you're landing 100% of your serves but not scoring with them, it indicates a need to serve more powerfully.
- In a 30-30 situation, it's easy to get caught when switching to a second serve, so rather than trying to win with the serve, aim to secure it with a stable first serve you’re used to.
- Most amateur players have weak backhand returns, but think about which returns your opponent is weak at and decide your direction.
- If you can't serve effectively, being the server can become a disadvantage. I first need to learn how to serve with more power. Currently, I'm just trying to place the ball stably, but I need to focus on hitting more straightforwardly.
- If the serve goes well, don't retreat as usual after serving, but boldly approach the net for a volley.
- The return is primarily a defense against serve attacks, so aim for the center. However, occasionally try turning for a forehand aimed wide or down the line, especially when the ball is short. It's also crucial to target the opponent's backhand to prevent them from attacking.
- A backhand down the line is difficult to angle towards the sideline, and hitting to the central court can invite a counter cross shot. This means you're taking a risk.
- When your serve goes in properly, you'll usually aim for an open court on the third hit. Additionally, practice ending the third shot convincingly with an approach if a strong serve results in a short return.
- If you aim for an open court with a straight shot, a quick recovery is necessary as the opponent can hit a cross-court shot. You can't just stand idly by watching.