---
date: 2025-02-01 19:16:00+00:00
description: How will I be playing tennis in five years?
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
  - "#BeginnerTennis"
  - "#AmateurCoach"
  - "#TennisLessons"
  - "#TennisClub"
  - "#TennisTravel"
templateKey: post
title: My Tennis Journey
---

I wake up at 5 AM, eat yogurt and a banana, and have a coffee. I must go to a tennis lesson at 7 AM. To avoid rushing out from the crack of dawn, I decided to wake up 1-2 hours earlier.

The lesson coach is a college senior, essentially an amateur coach. Having a session with a graduate student from an engineering school feels like attending a physics class. I like this approach. Who would have thought I'd hear the term "torque" during a tennis lesson?

During the height of COVID in '22, I started tennis with my colleagues during lunch breaks. It usually takes about a year before you can properly rally. Many beginners can't endure this period and quit. Fortunately, I had several tennis acquaintances. So even without being able to hit the ball properly, I'd go out on the court with them. Being on the court made me want to improve quickly, leading me to take lessons 2-3 times a week.

Booking a tennis court is tough. Finding players of similar skill levels is also challenging. During my beginner days, I joined a KakaoTalk chat room to meet various people. Together, we diligently booked courts and played tennis. Since we were all beginners, it was fun for everyone. Looking back, it was quite a good environment.

About a year into playing, I joined a "club." At the time, it felt like a significant achievement. I felt like an official member of the tennis community. No longer did I need to wander in search of courts or fellow players, which was a relief. More than anything, it felt like my tennis skills were being recognized. I had become a competent player. I even went on nearby tennis trips with club members and participated in competitions. However, my initial club experience didn't last long as it disbanded for various reasons.

After the club dissolved, I returned to wandering for tennis until an invitation from my superior, Y, led me to a certain tennis group. It was an exclusive indoor court where only members could enter. Most participants had a long history with tennis. Although I wondered whether a beginner like me should join, I mustered up the courage to go. Playing with seasoned players rapidly improved my skills.

Finding someone to play tennis with and booking a court is still tough. But now, I've somewhat solved this issue. I've reached a level where I can enjoy games, and tennis has become a cherished hobby for me. 

How will I be playing tennis in five years?