---
date: 2017-08-15
description: Reflections on reading 'Korean-Style Value Investment Strategy' by Juncheol Choi and Minkook Kim
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Korean value investing
tags:
  - "#investment"
  - "#stocks"
  - "#valueinvesting"
  - "#financialfreedom"
  - "#companyvalue"
templateKey: post
title: Investment, Not Speculation
---

While reading the book, I redefined my perspective on investing. It gave me a chance to ponder the cliché, "stocks are about investing, not speculating." The author distinguishes value investing from the mechanical trading of buying low and selling high. He describes value investing as purchasing an undervalued company with outstanding, differentiated value and patiently waiting. If a company truly holds value, the argument is that inevitably, with time, you will gain a return. The book also introduces methods to discover valuable companies.

After reading the book, I penned down some questions and answers regarding stocks.

- Q1. Why should one invest in stocks?
- A1. To gradually move towards financial independence with some financial income and to actively contribute to society by aiding companies in delivering scale value to the world. It also helps in developing an insight into the world, economy, and businesses.

- Q2. What should be my goal in stocks?
- A2. Not to lose money.

## Book Highlights
---

- Page 39: To succeed as a value investor, one must keep in mind and adhere to the following:
  - Have a precise understanding of the company.
  - Know exactly why to buy and why to sell (do not rely on charts or rumors for reasons).
  - Understand the full value of a company.
  - Purchase stocks at a price lower than the perceived value.
  - Buy stocks as if purchasing the entire company.
  - Invest using spare money without engaging in margin trading or using loans.

- Page 110: Even if a company is outstanding, it will be of little significance if the sector it belongs to is insignificant. The type of business the company is in fundamentally determines its value.

- Page 345: Value investors must always be prepared and patient to buy stocks at prices lower than the company's value, unaffected by the whims of volatile stock prices. Preparation can be summarized in two ways:
  - First, pick and continually observe companies that appeal to you. Typically, people consider the investment period only from buying to selling stocks. However, value investors view the period from identifying promising companies, waiting patiently until the stock price drops below value, and the time leading up to selling the stocks as the entire investment period.
  - Second, maintaining a cash reserve. Many investors hold only stocks out of vague expectations and anxieties that the market might rally tomorrow. In such cases, if a sudden drop occurs, not only will they suffer significant losses, but they will also be unable to purchase stocks they've been eyeing due to a lack of prepared cash.

- Page 352: If you are prepared regarding the companies you want to invest in, a market crash is not something to fear but rather like a special bargain sale at a department store.

- Page 359: Buying stocks that you don’t plan to sell is the best selling strategy for a value investor.