---
date: 2020-11-01 14:19:18.652000+00:00
description: Reading Julie Zhuo's "The Making of a Manager"
image: /img/hi.png
tags:
- '#TeamLeader'
- '#MiddleManager'
- '#Communication'
- '#Process'
- '#PossibilityforChange'
templateKey: post
title: Becoming a Team Leader
---

Two years ago, there were 60 employees in the company. As of 2020, the company has grown to 150 people. Naturally, as the team expanded, opportunities arose, leading to my becoming a team leader.

Over the past two years, much has happened. I wandered quite a bit but also achieved several accomplishments. I navigated through pride and humility, frustration and compromise, discontent and passion. Looking back, I realize I didn't act as ambitiously as I desired. There has always been a romanticism and thirst for team play, but my style was largely individualistic. Now, the time has come for me to act more decisively. After all, I am now a team leader.

I will likely engage in more conversations with people. Hence, communication has become even more crucial. I possess many complexes surrounding communication. In retrospect, I've slightly improved but there is still a long road ahead. I asked those around me about my characteristics. They summarized me as "logical but disagreeable, needing more humility, respect, and trust in others."

When thoughts about the team become overwhelming, the insights I've gained here will provide a framework. From vaguely understanding how to conduct one-on-one meetings to discussing processes.

> The word ‘process’ is daunting to many because it conjures images of piles of paperwork or long queues. However, a process itself is neither good nor bad. A process is merely the answer to the question, “What actions do we need to take to reach our goals?”

With a cynical view, I dislike the act of pontificating about "management" theoretically after reading a few books. Yet, even so, taking time to read and reflect is far better than being trapped in solitary thoughts. What I hope for is the "possibility for change." There are no set answers, and I will frequently fail. One must always dream of possibilities.

- - -

## Summary

### 1 What is Management?

* After three years of managing, I had grown somewhat wiser. If asked the same question, my response would likely be: • The duties of a manager are: - Building a team with good teamwork - Helping team members achieve their career goals - Creating processes for smooth work operations
* From the moment you decide not to handle everything ‘alone’, you become a manager.
* The primary duty of a true manager is to ‘derive better results in a group where multiple people are collaborating.’ This simple definition is where everything starts.
* Talented individuals will not stick around for years under a boss who undervalues them or doesn't earn their respect.
* Among all the possible work, why are you choosing ‘this work’? 
* The foremost important role of a manager is to make sure ‘the entire team knows what success entails and strives to achieve it.’
* One must consider if the team members are prepared for success, equipped with necessary skills, and motivated to produce outstanding performances.
* As a team grows, the importance of a manager’s practical abilities gradually diminishes. What becomes more important is maximizing the capabilities of team members to ‘multiply’ the overall capabilities of the team, also known as the multiplier effect.
* No matter how excellent a manager’s practical skills are, they should not see direct involvement in the work as their role. Doing so won’t markedly enhance team performance.
* To be an excellent manager, flexibility is essential. Teams experience constant changes with evolving goals, incoming and outgoing members, and developing processes. Accordingly, the manager’s daily duties also change. If management suits someone, they will enjoy the reality of ever-changing tasks.
* A person who can accurately identify problems and muster people to solve them is a leader.

### 2 The First 3 Months After Promotion to Team Leader

* Role as a Coach: You now need to understand the career goals of those who were your colleagues, which projects best suit their strengths and interests, what help they need, and how they are meeting expectations. It used to feel awkward and sometimes uncomfortable to ask someone who was a colleague not long ago, “What do you hope to be doing a year from now?” or “What do you think are your strengths?” Especially if I hadn’t had serious discussions with them before. However, it’s essential not to gloss over such discomfort. Identify what the team members are interested in.
* New managers often feel the need to express opinions at every opportunity to prove their capability, but this is often a big mistake.
* Is there a more effective way than revealing your weaknesses outright to create a perception that any topic can be discussed among each other?
* There is pressure to become a replica of the previous manager. Existing methods are vividly etched in you and your team’s memories, making it tempting to maintain the status quo as a manager. You may feel that all team members expect you to be just like the previous manager, despite being a wholly different person. However, without change, there is no development. So, have the confidence to not be fixated on the past.
* “Be yourself. Because others' lives are already taken.”

### 3 How to Lead a Small Team?

* It’s easy for the entire team to sit at one table, so there’s little chance of miscommunication. What remains are people and processes, and people are far more important.
* Why do people lack the motivation to achieve excellent results? First, they don’t know what the standards of excellence are. Second, the job doesn’t stimulate their passion or aspiration. In other words, they have the capability but would rather do something else. They may think that nothing will change no matter how hard they try. If there are no rewards for doing better and no penalties for maintaining the status quo, why go through the trouble?
* A team member’s dissatisfaction simmers below the surface until one day it explodes, often in the form of a resignation. When this happens, the team member is very likely to sever ties not just with the company but also with you.
* You want team members to want to be part of your team again in the future. If a team member is willing to have you as their boss in the future, it’s evidence that the relationship is very strong. If a manager moves to a new position and existing team members follow, one can assess that their leadership is competent.
* There is always evidence if you genuinely care for and respect your team members. Team members know it all, and rare are those with the immense acting skills to control every micro-signal unconsciously conveyed through body language. It’s simply impossible to express solid trust without truly believing that others can succeed.
* Spend time to help your team members. Your most valuable resources are time and energy. When you devote time and energy to the team, more solid relationships with the team members are fostered. This is why one-on-one meetings (referred to as interviews) are so important for managers. I recommend holding interviews with the people you directly manage at least once a week for 30 minutes.
* Identifying: First, identify what is the most important issue for the team member and what topics need focused discussion. - What is most concerning you right now? - What do you see as the most important item to address this week? - How can we make the most of this time?
* Understanding: After identifying what to discuss, ascertain the root of the issue and how it should be resolved. - What do you think the ideal outcome is? - Are there any obstacles hindering that? - What do you think is most important? - What would be the best solution? - What is your biggest concern?
* A highly regarded executive indirectly criticized the speed at which a team completed their tasks, and this message spread widely within the company. The unfavorable tone of the message was evident, and considering the high rank of the individual, the team morale plummeted.
* Humans inherently notice the bad more than the good. It’s an advantageous trait for evolution.
* “Only exceptional managers have a certain ability. They can identify and leverage each individual’s strengths. A manager’s duty is to channel each person’s talents into results.”
* Don’t allow underperformers to take up all your limited time. Diagnose and address issues with underperformers as quickly as possible.
* Proficient CEOs know from experience that they need to allocate more manpower, resources, and attention to the few successful projects rather than try to save ‘every’ project.
* Up to now as a manager, I have seen excellent team members leave the team because they felt they were not a good fit with us. Initially, each time this happened, it was hard to shake off the feeling that it was my fault. It was disappointing to see someone I cherished failing to mesh well with a team I cared for. It felt like mismatched Lego blocks or a needle and thread refusing to work together. I was sure I had done something wrong. But gradually, my perspective shifted. I came to understand that whether someone fits into a team is greatly influenced by the alignment of personal and organizational values. It could be called a matter of consistency or a problem of motivation or compatibility, but in any case, what an individual values needs to align with what the team (and the company) values.
* These days, I spend a lot of time identifying what applicants value during recruitment and clearly conveying what our company and I value. If someone nods as if acknowledging my explanation, they will likely enjoy working here. It’s fine if someone reacts indifferently to my explanation. But in such cases, no matter how much that person possesses the skills I’m looking for, I won’t try to fit a round peg into a square hole.
* If there is a mismatch between what motivates a person and what the team values, no amount of encouragement will result in a complete solution—at best only a temporary relief of symptoms.
* “I consider it cruel and ‘misguided goodwill’ to keep someone around who has no opportunity for growth and success. Letting them continue down the wrong career path and then later asking them to leave is about the most callous thing to do.”

### 4 The Art of Good Feedback

* Unfortunately, most people find giving feedback difficult. Sometimes there’s nothing helpful to say, or there might be a critical point to make but they stay silent for fear of hurting the person. Some think they might just be stirring up trouble without a significant incident occurring. Moreover, there’s a concern that the feedback, once delivered, might be perceived as ‘too vague and lacking substance’ or ‘too emotional and unhelpful.’ All things considered, providing feedback can feel quite daunting for an inexperienced manager.
* Feedback doesn’t have to be critical. Usually, praise incites more motivation than criticism. Also, there is no need to start with problem identification.
* Set expectations clearly from the beginning.
* Give feedback on behavior often and with caution. Think about the feedback you've given to a team member regarding their work. What are the characteristics? Is the team member quick or slow in making decisions? Are they a genius at handling processes, or do they think outside the box? Do they prefer practical solutions or ideal solutions?
* Since we can’t expect perfection, we ought to recognize we are human: We make mistakes, we fail, and we miss deadlines. It’s inevitable. Yet, to manage the aftermath, it is crucial to adjust expectations as swiftly as possible when such things occur. It helps mitigate the problem from escalating. During this process, your sincerity and experience become apparent. If you were greatly disappointed or someone else was significantly let down, consider this: Where did I fail to clarify expectations? What can I do better in the future?
* To ensure feedback is received well, it’s crucial to create a sense of safety for the team member and convey that the feedback comes from a place of care and regard.
* When giving critical feedback, it’s important that the team member feels that their thoughts are valued. Here’s a simple method: First, state the main point straightforwardly, then ask, “Does this feedback resonate with you? Why or why not?”
* To prompt a team member to act on feedback, the easiest approach is often to suggest what they should do next.
* Avoid lengthy introductions. Do not attempt to ‘soften’ a difficult message. As a novice manager, I once read about sandwiching critical feedback between positive remarks: Start with positive feedback, address areas needing improvement, and finish with more positive comments. The logic was akin to using marshmallows to make vegetables appear more appealing. However, that method isn’t very effective in practice. Attempting to ease tension with shallow compliments only creates an impression of insincerity.
* Respect the perspective of opposition, and say, “Even if you disagree with my decision, I hope you cooperate to proceed.” Do what needs to be done.

### 5 Self-care for Team Leaders

* What are three characteristics people who know and cherish me the most (family, spouse, partner, close friends) would describe about me?
* When cornered, try the following:
  * 1. Acknowledge that the anxiety, fear, and confusion you’re feeling are common for anyone. Sheryl Sandberg also avoided being seen while leaving work at 5 PM in “Lean In”, fearing others’ judgment. Actress Reese Witherspoon nearly declined becoming a campaign ambassador for women due to her fear of public speaking. Despite their success, they experienced self-doubt because such feelings are entirely human.
  * 2. Visualize leading the situation you are worried about to a great success. Do you have a major presentation tomorrow? Picture this: you enter the room and smile at people. You stand confidently and speak calmly. Someone poses a tough question, but you answer with assurance. People focus on your response and nod. The key to successful visualization is detailing it as much as possible.
  * 3. Recall a past moment when you defiantly faced and overcame a daunting challenge. Recall the vivid details of the experience. How scared were you initially? Mentally retrace the problem-solving steps you took. Recall when you felt confident it would all work out. Savor the pride and confidence you felt from succeeding in the end, and relish the compliments.
  * 4. Imagine people who cherish you sharing what they love about you. Picture them gathered around, taking turns expressing love and admiration. I often teleport myself back to the infinite love I felt listening to wedding toasts from family and friends.
  * 5. Envision how you’d feel day to day once you climb out of the rut. Close your eyes and picture your routine. Immerse yourself in each moment and the emotions you wish to feel. For instance: Picture feeling healthy as you exercise in the morning, the fullness after a hearty breakfast, the warmth when greeting colleagues, the focus during a critical meeting. Visualization is incredibly powerful and can be achieved by taking a few quiet moments to relax. When it becomes a habit, you can boost your confidence in any hard-hitting situation.
* Draw a firm line to protect yourself. If work becomes overwhelming, other life areas can suffer. For instance, stress from a project demanding around-the-clock work might cause you to toss and turn during crucial sleep hours. Reject those situations firmly. Clearly set boundaries. Make time for other vital activities, whether it’s conversing with loved ones, enjoying hobbies, exercising, or volunteering in the community.
* When I’m incredibly busy, I deliberately carve out 15 minutes at the beginning and end of my day for activities like watching a TED talk, playing an iPhone game, doing a crossword, exercising, or reading—activities unrelated to work. Even just 15 minutes clearly establishes that ‘I reserve time for myself in all circumstances.’ If your physical and mental states are not optimum, your work performance will falter. Hence, it’s imperative to care for oneself.
* The world is rife with individuals who can teach us. Those who utilize their expertise to help us grow are mentors. Formality isn’t necessary for someone to become your mentor. In “Lean In,” Sheryl Sandberg warns against viewing mentors as rare and precious connections.
* Instead of wondering, ‘I have many things (or financial commitments) to attend to, is now the right time for this?’ consider, ‘A year from now, will I be glad I pursued this education?’ This perspective will provide clearer decision-making.

### 6 What Makes a Great Meeting?

* Effective meetings are conducted simply and clearly, leaving participants with the following thoughts:
  - I’m glad I attended the meeting.
  - Applying what I learned today will boost my work effectiveness.
  - I’ve gained better clarity on my next steps.
  - Everyone was enthusiastic.
  - The atmosphere was welcoming.
* Although unanimous agreement isn’t always necessary, individuals affected by the decisions should feel the outcomes were reached through a fair and efficient process.
* Effective information-sharing meetings exhibit these traits:
  - Attendees feel they have gained valuable insights.
  - Key messages are clearly conveyed and memorable.
  - Attendees remain focused (enthusiastic presenters maintain an appropriate pace and engage in lively discourse).
  - The intended emotions (such as inspiration, trust, pride, courage, empathy) are successfully evoked.
* Feedback meetings that work well showcase these characteristics:
  - Everyone shares a common understanding of the project’s success criteria.
  - Evaluations of the current state, changes since the last meeting, and future plans are transparently communicated.
  - Questions, significant decisions, and issues are stated to extract meaningful feedback.
  - Procedures for action steps (including forthcoming deadlines or review schedules) are agreed upon.
* For idea meetings to yield optimum results, two types of time are essential: time alone for thinking (the brain is most creative when alone) and time together for collaboration (stronger ideas emerge when different viewpoints clash).
* I often fell victim to the ‘curse of knowledge.’ This cognitive bias prevents individuals from envisioning their message as it appears to those unfamiliar with the content. They presume other attendees will easily understand the gist as they swiftly navigate slides.
* Adjust meeting formats to encourage active participation. Without a structured meeting framework, people only speak when they wish. This can lead introverted individuals to hold back and extroverted individuals to dominate the meeting. Factors like rank, years of service, and closeness also influence ease of speaking. Naturally occurring conversational dynamics can be disrupted by adding structure to meetings. For example, allow participants to speak in a predetermined order. If there’s a need to select one out of three options, ensure every attendee voices their opinion by asking, “Which option do you prefer and why?”
* If someone seems to want to say something, facilitate their contribution by saying, “It seems John has an opinion.” I was deeply moved when a colleague did this for me in a review meeting attended by about 20 executives. A perceptive manager might directly ask, “Susan, you seem perplexed. What do you think we should do?” or “Rick, you haven’t said a word. What’s your take?” If someone speaks too much, politely clarify it’s someone else’s turn by suggesting, “Ian, you might have more to say, but let’s give others a chance to speak.” While it might not be comfortable to interrupt someone and steer the conversation differently, conveying the belief that diverse opinions lead to better outcomes is crucial.
* Life is too short to waste time on subpar meetings. Make all meetings you attend fruitful, exceptional, and lively. Then, your team will experience more achievements.

### 7 Whom Should We Hire?

* Hiring is not merely about filling gaps. Focusing solely on filling vacancies means you might overlook the best candidates. When hiring, think about enhancing not just the team but your ‘life’ as well.
* Design your team intentionally. It’s arduous to reject someone capable of immediate work when the team is short-staffed. Even if that person doesn’t completely match the team’s ideal profile, it’s easy to overlook it. It’s like trying to satisfy hunger with pickles, ketchup, and bread when the refrigerator is empty.
* You can align with the following questions:
  - How many people will we need in our team this year? (Considering company growth, predicted workforce reduction, budget, priorities, etc.)
  - How much experience should each new hire possess?
  - What specific skills or strengths does our team need? (e.g., creative thinking, exceptional administrative skills, expertise in XYZ)
  - What skills or strengths do we currently possess that a new hire doesn’t necessarily need to have?
  - What attributes, backgrounds, or personalities will enhance our team’s diversity?
* Kevin Ryan, the founder, is an advocate of conducting reference checks. “The hiring process consists of three elements: resume, interview, and reference check. Most managers overestimate resumes and interviews and underestimate reference checks. Yet, reference checks are the most important.” Keep in mind, during reference checks, that most people improve their skills over time. Therefore, be cautious but not too dismissive of negative remarks from experiences long past.
* Candidates granted a lukewarm acceptance had no apparent issues; their character, responses, and experience were reasonable. Yet, there was nothing to commend them on either. No interviewers felt compelled passionately enough to keep them. Given that hiring already involves a gamble, it’s risky to select candidates in the lukewarm category.
* When tackling any problem, what type excites you, and why? Could you describe your favorite projects? (▶ Learn what energizes and drives the applicant.)
  - What do you consider your greatest strength? What areas do people around you think require growth? (▶ Understand how the applicant assesses themselves and identify their strengths and weaknesses.)
  - Imagine yourself three years from now. How would you like to have changed compared to now? (▶ Discover what aspirations the applicant holds, how goal-oriented they are, and how much self-reflection they perform.)
  - What has been your most challenging conflict situation over the past year? How did it resolve, and what did you learn? (▶ Gain insights into how the applicant collaborates and handles conflict.)
  - When recently have you felt thrilled or moved while working? (▶ Understand what the applicant finds interesting or valuable.)
* Conduct personal investigations when hiring leaders. Recruiting a manager or a senior contributor is a significant investment. Leaders have substantial influence, and making a poor leadership hire can be devastating. Hiring a manager whose values misalign with yours could lead them to hire individuals you find unsatisfactory. If the manager knows nothing about collaboration, they may accumulate a list of discontented individuals.

### 8 What Builds a Successful Team?

* ‘Process’ is a daunting word for many as it brings to mind images of writing mountains of paperwork or waiting in long lines. However, a process itself is neither inherently good nor bad. A process is simply the answer to the question, “What actions do we need to take to achieve our goals?”
* Questions that could assist when establishing a vision include:
  - If your team had a magic wand to accomplish anything perfectly, what would you want to change 2–3 years from now?
  - How would you want colleagues in other departments to describe your team’s work?
  - What reputation would you want for your team several years down the road? How does that compare to the current reality?
  - What unique superpower does your team possess? When performing at its best, how does the team create value?
  - What scenario would unfold if the team's capabilities were doubled? What if they increased fivefold?
  - What evaluation method could quickly and clearly determine whether your team is performing poorly, adequately, or exceptionally?
* “Few people treat goals with genuine seriousness. Many expend above-average efforts across too many tasks instead of applying excellent thoughts and efforts towards a few important ones. High achievers tend to exercise their willpower alongside making judicious choices.” In essence, prioritization is crucial and an essential skill for managers.
* I must admit that it took me a while to truly understand how essential it is to clarify accountability assignments. Even among high-spirited individuals, when roles become ambiguous, problems can arise.
* Cyril Parkinson’s Parkinson’s Law posits that ‘work expands to fill the time available for its completion.’
* Perfect execution outweighs perfect strategy.
* Effective execution is evidenced by:
  - Project or task lists are ranked by importance, attracting more time and focus at the top.
  - An efficient decision-making process is in place, understood, and trusted by all.
  - Decisions are made promptly, often with around 70% of the desired information at hand, per Jeff Bezos, CEO of Amazon, who stated waiting for 90% of the information makes one too late.
  - Once a decision is made, all team members align with it and move in unison, without adding caveats unless new information arises.
  - A well-defined process exists for evaluating whether and how to amend plans based on new and critical information.
  - Every task has an 'owner' and a 'deadline,' ensuring responsibility for completion.
  - Instead of becoming disheartened by failure, lessons are learned, which typically fortifies the team against repeating mistakes.
* Balancing short-term and long-term achievements: Executors predict realistically what will happen the next day, week, and month while also setting clear directions for 1, 3, or 10 years ahead.
* Some years ago, I started sending my team weekly emails summarizing the current status of ongoing projects. Initially, reflecting on current projects and detailing key highlights mentally was challenging.
* With each slip-up, one grows wiser. Take a brief moment to explore the lessons learned from the process and how better planning could be approached next time. Thus, when encountering another furiously flowing torrent, proceed boldly and calmly.

### 9 How to Lead a Growing Team

* As a manager, you initially observe the team’s situation up close, but over time, you see it more distantly and broadly. To bridge that gap, you need to establish a vision, recruit leaders, delegate tasks, and hone communication skills. This chapter discusses what differences to expect and how to thrive as your team grows.
* Is your suggestion perceived as a ‘command’? Are your queries seen as ‘criticisms’? Are you looking at things with rose-tinted glasses, unaware? Thankfully, there are ways to encourage team members to speak candidly. Emphasize welcoming dissent and reward those who put forth opposing views. Publicly acknowledge your mistakes and show your humanity. Phrases like “I might be wrong, so feel free to disagree. Here’s my thought…” help generate discussions. Asking directly for advice such as “If you were in my shoes, what would you do?” can also be beneficial.
* I define delegation as ‘the skill of discerning when to step in and when to step back and entrust others.’ However, maintaining that balance, as if walking a tightrope while blindfolded, isn’t easy.
* Antoine de Saint-Exupéry purportedly said, “To build a ship, you don’t gather people to collect wood, assign tasks, or instruct. Instead, instill in them a yearning for the vast and boundless sea.”
* When someone is in a position not suited for them, costs ensue. Would you rather burden other team members or customers with these costs, or do the difficult task of removing that person from their position? A friend offered another question that helps see reality clearly: “Imagine that position is vacant. Would you rehire the current person or gamble on hiring someone else?”
* Continuously explore ways to delegate. This sentiment resonates with all excellent managers I know. They agree that to form an outstanding team, one must constantly consider how to pass on their current responsibilities to others.
* The essence of delegation is investing time and energy at the intersection of the most critical tasks to the organization and tasks that you can uniquely do better than anyone. This entails delegating and coaching team members in areas where they can perform as well as you, if not better.

### 10 Creating a Good Organizational Culture

* One respected manager advised that to truly grasp an organization’s culture, don’t just look at what they write on their website. Instead, look at what they sacrifice for what they value.
* Understanding the Team’s Current State:
  - What are the top three words that come to mind when describing your team’s personality?
  - When were you most proud of being part of the team? Why?
  - What does your team do better than others?
  - Randomly pick five team members and ask each, "What does our team value?" What answers would likely emerge?
  - How similar is the team’s culture to the overall organizational culture?
  - If a journalist were to report on your team, what would they say about what your team excels at or struggles with?
  - What are the top-three frequently cited issues when complaints arise about the team?
* Understanding Personal Aspirations:
  - What five adjectives would you hope an external observer uses to describe your team culture? Why?
  - Consider those five words as a double-edged sword. What traps could arise if each trait is pursued blindly? Are those risks acceptable?
  - Enumerate aspects of other teams or organizations’ cultures that you admire. Why do you admire them? What negative aspects must those teams or organizations withstand?
  - List aspects of other teams or organizational cultures you dislike. Why don’t you like them?
* Understanding the Gap:
  - On a scale of 1 (completely at odds) to 9 (fully aligned), how closely does the current team resemble your aspirations?
  - Which traits valued by you are also team strengths?
  - Where are the greatest gaps between the current team culture and your aspirations?
  - What issues hinder the realization of your aspirations? How can these be addressed?
  - One year from now, how do you envision your team should look? How would you convey this with your team, highlighting the difference from the current status?
* As a new manager, I thought repeating myself was wrong. Concerned about team members growing tired of hearing the same message repeatedly and thinking I was arrogant. Yet, Sheryl Sandberg taught me it’s not so. Years ago, Sheryl continually emphasized the importance of difficult conversations whenever opportunities arose within the company.
* Don’t hesitate to talk about what you value. Actively communicate why something is valuable. Be prepared to repeat the message about ten times for it to stick. If others join in spreading the message, it will have a greater impact.
* If you aren’t ready to act on your words, don’t start talking in the first place. This is a painful lesson I’ve learned through experience.
* “It seems you rarely request feedback from me or other team members. I wish you would ask for more feedback.” This remark was a wake-up call. Despite often stressing the significance of feedback, I realized I wasn’t practicing what I preached. More importantly, a team member noticed this gap! I vowed to continuously practice requesting feedback until it became second nature.
* Establishing a culture of appropriate rewards and accountability: Simply acting as you talk doesn’t guarantee the culture you desire will manifest. For your wanted culture to thrive, there needs to be an environment that rewards behavior aligning with the team’s values and holds accountable behavior that doesn’t. For instance, if you value transparency but team members find it more advantageous to withhold important information from you, then you need to dig into where conflicting incentives are transmitted. Which actions or achievements are esteemed by the team, and what is rejected?

### Epilogue, Only 1% of the Journey is Complete

* I can’t count the number of times I’ve felt immature, short-sighted, lacking empathy, indecisive, and impatient. This resulted in project difficulties, deepening misunderstandings, and valued colleagues leaving in disappointment. Yet, I was fortunate. During a period where I likely worked in one of the most dynamic organizations, I learned how to be a manager, admired by some of the greatest leaders during this era. My superiors trusted me. Fellow managers demonstrated better ways to manage. Team members inspired and motivated me.
* The sight of multiple people united and functioning as one is truly gratifying. When collaboration is seamless, the lines between you and me dissolve. You feel the energy and cohesion as tens, hundreds, or thousands of individuals collectively pursue shared values toward a common goal.