---
date: 2019-03-03
description: After reading Daniel Kahneman's 'Smart Thinking'
image: /img/book/black-swan.jpg
keywords: Smart Thinking, Rolf Dobelli, Birgit Lang, Walking Tree
tags:
- '#FightingBiases'
- '#DecisionMaking'
- '#ThinkingErrors'
- '#StockMarket'
- '#LogicAndObjectivity'
templateKey: post
title: Fighting Biases
---

> We often tend to evaluate decisions by their outcomes rather than the quality of the process. Don't base your decisions on outcomes alone. Just because an outcome was bad doesn't mean the decision was wrong. Conversely, just because an outcome was good doesn't mean the decision was right. So even if it turns out that a decision was wrong from an outcome perspective, don't be dissatisfied. If you happen to succeed, rather than being proud of the decision itself, you should revisit why you made that decision. If it was a rational decision with understandable reasons, you can act the same way next time, even if luck wasn't on your side previously.

Knowing something doesn't necessarily make it easier to reduce errors. Moreover, in reality, what constitutes an error is often unclear. Nonetheless, we need to strive for logic and objectivity. All we can do is our best in any given situation. 

## Summary

- The 'thinking errors' discussed in this book refer to the deviations in thought and actions from systematic rationality and logical reasoning.
- Rather than underestimating, we tend to overestimate our knowledge and are more often biased towards the risk of losing something than the prospect of gaining something.
- Factors such as organizational culture and charismatic CEOs seemed impeccable, making Cisco Systems one of the most valuable companies by market capitalization in March 2000. However, for whatever reason, Cisco's stock plummeted by 80% the following year. Journalists who praised the company began to criticize it, citing reasons such as poor customer orientation, unclear business strategies, inept mergers, slack organizational culture, and an ineffective CEO. Yet, the reality was that neither the CEO nor the strategies had changed; the true reason for the stock price drop was a sudden decrease in market demand, unrelated to Cisco's internal conditions.
- People are often misled by focusing on a singular good event and then generalizing it to the overall situation, known as the 'Halo Effect.'
- Psychologist Edward Thorndike pointed out that characteristics of an individual, such as appearance, social status, and age, can overwhelmingly influence the overall impression, masking all else. The most studied example is physical beauty. Research has shown that attractive individuals are perceived as kinder, more honest, and more intelligent.
- It’s proven that attractive people advance more easily and that teachers unconsciously give better grades to good-looking students.
- World-renowned orchestras audition applicants from behind tents to avoid bias based on gender, race, or appearance. Economic journalists should not limit themselves to analyzing just a company's quarterly performance (since that's already done by stock exchanges), but delve deeper into a variety of factors. The results may not always be pleasing, but certainly more reliable.
- The 'Sunk Cost Fallacy' refers to the frequent hindrance of making rational decisions due to fear of losing already spent resources. We often fall into this error in daily scenarios.
- It is irrational to let the purchase price play a major role in stock investment decisions. The focus should be on the future price fluctuations. Predictions about the future can always be wrong, especially at the stock exchange. Yet falling into the sunk cost fallacy often prevents easy acknowledgment of this fact. The more money lost on stock, the more stubbornly one tends to cling to it, attempting to justify it by standing firm.
- Cosmetic ads featuring beautiful models make people believe that cosmetics can make them beautiful. However, it's not the cosmetics that endowed their beauty. The models were coincidentally born beautiful, qualifying them to be selected for cosmetic ads. Such reversals of selection criteria and results lead to what is known as the 'Swimmer’s body illusion.’ Without such illusions, about half of the product advertisements would fail to work effectively.
- In conclusion, things that seem unlikely but happen by chance are fully possible occurrences. Therefore, if they do happen, don't be too surprised. It's more astonishing if they don't happen.
- Repeated attempts will induce anything to occur.
- Charlie Munger, Warren Buffett’s right-hand man, recounts experiencing the endowment effect when he was younger. He was offered an exceptionally lucrative investment opportunity, but having already invested all his assets, had no surplus funds. He would have had to sell some of his existing equity, but he didn’t because he couldn’t let go of what he already owned. The endowment effect made him hesitate, costing him over 5 billion in potential earnings.
- Don't cling to objects. Consider everything you own as borrowed from nature, which can be taken back at any time.
- We assume our hearts will beat even tomorrow. Without such certainties, life would be unbearable. To joyfully embrace unpredictability, induction is necessary. However, we must remember all certainties are transient.
- The 'Things will get worse before they get better trap' arises when there's insufficient knowledge or information about a challenge to address it. If the situation deteriorates, a supposed expert's prophecy seems validated. If unexpectedly improved, the client becomes happy, and the expert takes credit, thereby always being seemingly right.
- ‘Confirmation Bias' refers to the tendency to seek information that aligns with preexisting beliefs or theories, ignoring contradicting evidence—dubbed 'the father of all thinking errors.' Individuals filter new information to maintain their beliefs. Aldous Huxley said, “Ignoring facts doesn’t extinguish their existence.” Warren Buffett emphasized, “Filtering new information to sustain existing beliefs is an unrivaled skill among people.”
- Writing an article about "Google’s success through sustaining a creative corporate culture," similar successful companies may be mentioned, but the reverse is seldom attempted, i.e., seeking unsuccessful companies with creative cultures or successful ones without it.
- Larger companies expect their CEOs to exhibit showmanship and champion communications, believing this leadership style yields better performance, although this isn't necessarily true.
- Buffett's life maxim is: “Determine the range of your capabilities and stay within it. The extent of the range is lesser important, but knowing the precise boundaries is crucial.” Charlie Munger added, “Identify where your talents lie. Endeavoring for happiness outside your capability results in a pitiful future, almost a certainty.”
- Even if millions claim something is true, folly doesn’t become truth.
- If a company touts its product as the "best-selling," be skeptical. High sales alone don’t justify superiority.
- French engineer Maximilien Ringelmann's 1913 study showed two horses pulling together don’t exert twice the strength they do individually.
- Group decisions statistically are riskier than those made individually, as individuals can diffuse responsibility, believing "I’m not solely to blame even if it goes wrong."
- People act differently in groups than alone, displaying leadership and courage or relying on collective wisdom. Fortunately, we can dampen group disadvantages by making individual contributions visible, although today's incentive systems can still cause issues.
- Framing the same issue differently evokes distinct perceptions and is known as 'Framing' in psychology.
- Management courses equate ‘problems' to 'opportunities,' and 'dismissed managers' become 'people redefining their paths.' A "lost battle hero" is glorified irrespective of the blunders leading to demise. The Hudson River airplane landing was hailed as an aviator triumph.
- Keep in mind philosopher Pascal's words: “All human misfortune stems from the inability to quietly remain in a room.”
- Human tendency favors inaction resulting in individual detriment over perceived inaction causing societal harm, coined as 'Omission Bias.'
- 'Omission' means deliberately avoiding rightful actions. When either action or inaction can cause harm, non-action is typically chosen because it seems less harmful.
- People believe not developing new products is less wrong than developing incorrect ones and consider not reporting income to taxes less wrong than falsifying tax documents.
- Omission bias is tougher to recognize compared to action bias since refusing action is less noticeable. In 1968, student protests in Berlin urged people by saying, “If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.”
- Studies show daily commuting over an hour between home and work is the biggest dissatisfaction source.
- Newspaper editorial rules imply "No story without heroes." Hence, journalists (and readers) commit the ‘Fundamental Attribution Error.’
- Fundamental Attribution Error refers to attributing others' actions to internal factors like personality over external factors, overestimating personal influence while underestimating situational contexts.
- 'Liking Bias' shows we are inclined to buy from or assist those we like, despite being easily recognizable, it's a repetitive pitfall.
- As a leader, appoint a dissenting voice in your group. Though unpopular, they might be the most vital.
- Markus, a slim man with glasses who enjoys Mozart, could be either: A) a truck driver, B) a literature professor at Frankfurt University. People likely choose B, but statistically, without additional context, A is more probable due to the sheer number.
- While knowing nothing, best guesses align with probable odds.
- A few small successes can mislead one into thinking the same methods solve all problems, akin to opening a map of London in Paris.
- 'Availability Bias' involves forming a worldview based on personal or frequently experienced information. However, what’s easily recalled isn't always most accurate.
- To counter Availability Bias, interact with diverse thinkers having different experiences.
- 'Story Bias' distorts accounts simplifying realities, often squeezing unmatched events into causal narratives.
- Google's 2010 Super Bowl spot exemplifies human nature's draw to stories, viewable on YouTube under ‘Google Parisian Love.’
- Why is retrospective certainty bias dangerous? It convinces people of foresight, leading to arrogance and false judgments based on personal speculation fitting events in hindsight.
- Though not academically grounded, personal advice: maintain a 'prediction diary.' Record personal predictions related to politics, career, weight, stocks, etc. and compare with actual outcomes. Discovering your prophetic inaccuracies can be eye-opening.
- Integrating newspaper clippings or similar to prediction notes can reveal global experts share this fallibility, emphasizing unpredictability.
- Even in personal life, absolute planning and control aren't feasible. Focus on few certain influences, specifically the pivotal ones and let all else unfold naturally.
- 'Tragedy of the Commons' is a shallow cliché. The gravest mistake is assuming that education, campaigns, social appeals, papal bulls, or pop star sermons can resolve it.
- ‘Outcome Bias’ is illustrated here. We tend to evaluate decisions by outcomes rather than processes. Avoid making decisions based solely on outcomes. Bad outcomes don't necessarily imply wrong decisions, and vice versa. Therefore, remain undismayed if past decisions prove outcome-wrong. If successful, reassess the reasoning rather than pride in the decision itself. If rational, repeat the decision next time, luck notwithstanding.
- Yet choice limits exist. Beyond such thresholds, excessive demands for choice can degrade life quality, academically termed ‘Paradox of Choice.’
- A similar incident occurred in 19th century China offering rewards for dinosaur bones, leading farmers to break up complete specimens for individual submissions to increase payouts.
- Munger once queried truthfully if a shiny plastic lure actually attracted fish. The shopkeeper replied with a smile, “Charlie, we don’t sell these to fish.”
- Charlie Munger visited a tackling shop, noticing reflective plastic lures and inquired of the owner’s honesty.
- Not all worldly events bind rigidly into cause-effect chains; occasionally their influential direction reverses.
- “Staff motivated positively boosts sales,” but is it true? Could it be the reverse: thriving enterprises motivate employees? Particularly, writers and consultants often assert misguided causal links.
- ‘Survivorship Bias’ originates from the illusion where visible success overshadows the mundane obscuring systemically elevated success expectations.
- Media rarely excavates the failed buried in historical graveyards.
- If futurists had been right, the world would’ve ended a hundred times over.
- The first is typical overconfidence, the second due to project insiders intentionally lowballing cost projections.
- “Living in a community makes it easy to dwell among foreign ideas. Solitude makes living within oneself easier. Only those maintaining independence within a community deserve attention.” - Ralph Waldo Emerson
- Avoiding thinking errors is exhaustive. I have resolved to attempt being rationally thoughtful in (personal or business) decisions where outcomes significantly matter.
- My thanks go to Nassim Nicholas Taleb for the inspiration behind this book.