---
date: 2018-04-08
description: After reading "The Marketing Evaluation Bible" by Mark Jeffery
image: /img/book/marketing.jpeg
keywords: Marketing, Data-Driven, Marketing Evaluation Bible
tags:
- '#Marketing'
- '#DataDrivenMarketing'
- '#MarketingEvaluation'
- '#PerformanceCreation'
- '#Agile'
templateKey: post
title: Is Marketing Without Evaluation a Waste?
---

## Questions Before Reading

1. What is marketing?
2. What is important in data-driven marketing?
3. What am I curious about as I read this book?
4. Is marketing without evaluation (not data-driven) a waste?

### 1. What is marketing?

- Marketing is a series of activities aimed at increasing customer awareness, satisfaction, and loyalty towards a product.

- Not knowing much about marketing, I enjoyed reading the systematic thoughts related to marketing. The concept of the purchase funnel (awareness -> evaluation -> trial -> loyalty) was particularly simple and impressive. It made me think that it would be good to think in such divided terms.

### 2. What is important in data-driven marketing?

- Set clear goals, hypotheses, and metrics.
  
    - When collaborating with team members, clearly explain the goal/reason and what you want to achieve through the data.
    - It's better not to have vague metrics.
    - Consider performance metrics from the campaign planning stage.
- Adjust marketing activities based on performance creation criteria.
    - Improve profitability by adjusting the target to achieve performance. Sales may increase with the marketing budget, but profits can decrease.
    - There is a need to collect proper data that can clearly show performance.
    - There is no unprofitable customer, just a process and service channel that makes the profitability negative.
    - Timely marketing to the right customer determines performance.
- Gain insights by measuring marketing activities and move agilely.
    - Focus more on building suitable and appropriate infrastructure and processes for monitoring. Vague requirements can lead to high costs.
    - Utilize controlled approaches to understand causality. You can also create a controlled environment through pilot tests.
    - Agile does not mean changing campaigns impulsively or spontaneously. It should be systematic activities according to the plan. Decisions based on analysis results should also be pre-considered.
    - Don't judge solely by intuition; make decisions and execute based on data analysis results. Additionally, the decision-making tree should be as simple as possible.
- Develop the necessary competencies listed above step by step.

### 3. What am I curious about as I read this book?

- The methodology of marketing based on consumer goods is prevalent. In IT services, there are products at stages where CLTV (Customer Lifetime Value) is not clearly measurable. How should this be viewed?
    - Even if measured with AU (Active Users) instead of CLTV, it seems necessary to estimate a virtual user value based on user loyalty to enable data-driven marketing.

### 4. Is marketing without evaluation (not data-driven) a waste?

- The author acknowledges that many areas are not data-driven. The issue is not being data-driven in places where it is possible.
- It's not about giving up data-driven marketing because it's hard to measure, but suggesting practical methods to achieve it as much as possible.

## After Reading

I have supported marketing work development, such as building tracking links for subscription paths or developing landing pages. Although limited, I observed the marketing activities within the company from a distance from the perspective of 'How will the product be perceived by the user?' and 'What marketing message should be conveyed?'. Perhaps that's why it was somewhat familiar and fun to read. However, without any prior concerns about marketing, the content still felt lengthy.