---
date: 2019-02-14 00:50:00+00:00
description: Simplicity and Persuasion
image: /img/picaso.jpg
tags:
  - "#PicasoAndProgrammer"
  - "#Developer"
  - "#ProjectExperience"
  - "#ProblemSolving"
  - "#Growth"
templateKey: post
title: Picasso and the Programmer
---

This is the story of launching a beta service into its official version after a year. At that time, I was developing the payment and promotion sections. The policies were complicated. Even the creators found it difficult to explain simply. To provide feedback, I tried to persuade the PM. However, I couldn't convince much. I resolved to myself, "Well, what's decided is decided. Now I'll prove my development skills!" and continued with the project.

It didn't take long to realize that I was a brave fool. I remember precisely; there were 16 user states, and each time a user's state changed, a coupon had to be issued or revoked. Consequently, the UX flow and guide texts needed to be adjusted. I still vividly remember the days I spent writing all the scenarios on a big whiteboard, trying to piece it together.

Then it reached a point where it couldn’t continue like this. I explained the situation to a senior developer next to me. That senior developer quickly simplified the problem. He suggested changing some policy issues to avoid supporting them. It was something that could be acceptable from a user’s perspective too. And he persuaded various people and led decision-making. My inability to persuade while rambling on felt miserable.

I felt an overwhelming difference in capabilities between myself and the senior developer. That senior had the power to grasp the essence and simplify the problem. Looking back now, I think working with those people at the time brought me a lot of growth, both directly and indirectly.

I wonder how many times Picasso observed, pondered, and sketched to express the essence of a bull.