---
date: 2023-07-09 13:59:14.367000+00:00
description: Reading Yamaki Junpei's "The Easiest Way to Find What You Want to Do in the World"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#whatyouwanttodo'
- '#passion'
- '#talent'
- '#values'
- '#immersion'
templateKey: post
title: What I Want to Do
---

The three elements that support what you want to do are as follows:
1. What you like (passion): Purely liking something without the criteria of whether it is beneficial or not.
2. What you're good at (talent): Something universally applicable to any field rather than just a skill. For example, understanding from another person's perspective rather than just knowing English or programming.
3. What is valuable (values, purpose): The reason why you do it.
   1. Internal/external purposes. However, external meaning is important when looking for work.
   2. Even if you like and are good at something, it cannot become what you want to do if it has no external utility. It should be something that can help others, can be explained, makes money, and is productive.

Ultimately, if these three elements are in place, you can immerse yourself. It's important to focus especially on the "why." Focusing only on "what" can cause you to pay attention to the image rather than the essence. Would running a baseball equipment store simply because you like baseball make you happy? You need to think specifically about why you like baseball.

In college, I started my career as a developer. I wanted to create a shopping mall, and I was engrossed in creating something quickly with a small team. At that time, it was natural that **I** had to do the development.

Later, I was employed by a company and worked as a developer. I became anxious as I moved away from "proactively creating something with quick results." This anxiety changed my career. I shifted from front-end to back-end, back-end to data, and from product or organization to manager. I gradually moved away from being a developer, but I continued to do "thinking proactively and creating quick results." Additionally, the influence and impact I handled also grew.

Not everything went smoothly, and there were always concerns and difficulties whenever I ventured into a new area. But ultimately, I was able to achieve results and feel effective in this process. Looking back now, it's clear. The reason I initially started my career as a developer was merely a good or perhaps the only means to make an impact.

Reflect on what kind of person you want to be and what you want to pursue. Direction and contemplation are sometimes really, really necessary.