---
date: 2019-11-11 08:56:39.643000+00:00
description: After reading Nassim Nicholas Taleb's 'Antifragile'
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Antifragile, Nassim Taleb, uncertainty
tags:
- '#NassimTaleb'
- '#Uncertainty'
- '#Antifragile'
- '#Rationalization'
- '#GrowthThroughFailure'
templateKey: post
title: It Is Rational Not to Rationalize
---

Nassim Taleb dislikes superficial predictions. He advises acknowledging and leveraging uncertainty.

> There are things that benefit from shocks. These things thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stress, and they enjoy adventure, risk, and uncertainty. Although these phenomena occur everywhere, there is no exact opposite word for fragile, which breaks under stress. Let’s call such things ‘antifragile’. They are properties that become stronger from uncertainty and chaos. An example can be how one concentrates better with a little noise present. Bone density also increases under stress.

Growing through failure can make you stronger from a long-term perspective. Nietzsche once said, "That which does not kill me makes me stronger." I used to dislike uncertainty and felt significant anxiety about it. I endeavored to find something explainable. However, I considered that many things might be inexplicable. Hence, I realized the importance of the ability to navigate through uncertainty.

Avoiding small failures might lead to bigger ones. We should expose ourselves to small failures, endure, and become antifragile. The world is filled with tricky interdependencies and nonlinear responses that are hard to detect. In such environments, it is not desirable to believe that everything is perfectly controllable and explainable. Not rationalizing becomes the rational thing to do.

Let’s not run away from randomness in fear. Accept uncertainty within healthy control.