---
date: 2018-06-03
description: Reflections on Clayton Christensen's 'The Innovator's Dilemma'
image: /img/book/card.jpg
keywords: The Innovator's Dilemma,Clayton M. Christensen
tags:
- '#BusinessManagement'
- '#MarketChange'
- '#DisruptiveTechnology'
- '#Innovation'
- '#BusinessFailureCases'
templateKey: post
title: Continuing Business as Usual
---

This is the story of the failures of dominant companies that lost their market position. Despite efforts to maintain competitiveness, quick responses to customer demands, and aggressive investments in new technologies, these companies fail. They focus blindly on the market and customer demands and end up making wrong decisions when faced with market changes brought about by disruptive technologies. At times, it felt like a somewhat outcome-based and dull narrative.

When a market is already established and a company has achieved some level of success, there's a higher chance the organization will operate out of inertia. Additionally, companies of a certain scale find it hard to discover and concentrate on the potential of smaller markets. Thus, they tend to focus on established markets, doing what they have always done. Consequently, they fail to adapt to the emergence of innovative technologies and are ousted from the market.

Companies face the dilemma of whether to continue focusing on sustainable technologies that current mainstream markets desire or to develop disruptive technologies that may not succeed immediately but have the potential to transform markets. While it's important to accurately follow measurable and visible market trends, discovering and learning about what people truly desire and driving market changes are even more crucial for a company's survival.