---
date: 2024-09-16 20:35:00+00:00
description: Reflections on reading Joseph Nguyen's "Don't Believe Everything You Think"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
  - "#happinessandthought"
  - "#controlofthought"
  - "#emotionalmanagement"
  - "#clearingthemind"
  - "#innergameoftennis"
templateKey: post
title: Happiness and Thought
links:
  - "[[Timothy Gallwey: Reflections on 'The Inner Game of Tennis']]"
---
> Do not strive to find the source of suffering. The source is your thoughts.

Many thoughts evoke negative emotions. Most often, we feel inadequate.

Author Nguyen suggests that thoughts hinder happiness. Since thoughts are something difficult for us to control, we should let them flow naturally instead of suppressing them. Thoughts are reactions to phenomena, and we can choose how to react. The first arrow, an event that happens to us, is unavoidable, but the second arrow, our thoughts, can be chosen. Just acknowledging that you're thinking can calm your mind, like sediment settling in water that is left undisturbed until it becomes clear.

When fully immersed, we don't think, and then we are happy. We can witness natural happiness, free from worries, concerns, and thoughts, in the laughter of a newborn baby. Thinking is painful. Are we not distressing ourselves with excessive thoughts? Reflecting on our own identity, comparing ourselves, and feeling empty only interfere with happiness. We should not believe "almost" everything we think.

Of course, it's impossible to stop thinking altogether. But we should also learn to clear our minds. Sometimes, my thoughts are so overwhelming that they get stuck. Clearing the mind opens up new possibilities.

Seek to have an empty mind and gain wisdom and intuition.

## Summary
- What we truly pursue in life is a feeling, not material things. However, we're trapped in the false belief that material things bring those feelings.
- We cannot always control the first arrow of life events. But the second arrow is our own response to the first one. That means the second arrow is within our choice.
- A smart person looks around; a wise person looks within. - Marcus Aurelius
- When you stop thinking, all problems disappear. - Lao Tzu
- If you're experiencing negative emotions, it's a sign that you're overthinking.
- The feeling we derive from thinking is solely negative emotion.
- Our goal is not to eliminate all negative emotions. Like the fear felt when deciding to walk down a deserted dark alley, some negative emotions can be useful at times.
- In other words, the intensity of positive emotions is inversely proportional to the amount of thought. The less you think, the more positive emotions you will feel.
- The most intriguing and paradoxical part of stopping thinking is that by simply realizing you're thinking, you can minimize the thinking process without much effort.
- Many do not realize that if you leave a bowl of water still for a while, the dirt will settle to the bottom, and the water will naturally clear. Our minds work similarly. If we leave them alone without filtering or boiling, they will clear up on their own, freeing the mind from the act of thinking. The original state of water is pure. Our minds, too, are naturally clear and pure. It's only when we shake them up ourselves that they become murky.
- "If I had unlimited money, traveled the world, had nothing to fear, and didn't care about others' recognition, what would I do and what would I create?"
- The intuitive mind is a sacred gift, and the rational mind is a faithful servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and has forgotten the gift of the divine. - Albert Einstein
- Then, if we stop thinking, how will we know what to do? Most people already know what they should do. They just fear doing it. For example, anyone wishing to lose weight knows exactly what is required to achieve that goal. The formula for losing weight is not as complex as rocket science or as cryptic as hieroglyphics.
- Have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They already know what you want. Everything else is secondary. - Steve Jobs
- It's important to understand the difference between thinking and thought.
- Do not strive to find the source of suffering. The source is your thoughts.