---
date: 2021-10-31 13:20:30+00:00
description: Thoughts on Tony Hsieh's "Delivering Happiness"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#happiness'
- '#autonomy'
- '#connection'
- '#corporateculture'
- '#zappos'
templateKey: post
title: Creating Happiness
---

The book structures happiness into four categories: "1. Perception of autonomy, 2. Perception of progress, 3. Connection, 4. Vision and meaning beyond oneself." The idea that building a company is a means to achieve happiness became clearer.

I learned how genuinely and honestly Zappos operates. The process of sharing corporate culture and decisions together felt particularly interesting. It was impressive to hear new hires speak about the company's vision, and those who disagreed were offered money to resign. Inside the company, examples that truly embody culture books or talent culture books are intriguing. When employees access the company's admin, they are shown profiles of other employees and asked to match characteristics.

People sometimes compromise on giving their best. Truly putting all energy into coordinating and solving something is not something everyone can do well. Why start a company? It's a hesitation kept in the corner of my mind. There are obvious reasons like making lots of money, being free, creating prosperity in the world, and thinking I could do well, but it was a time to think again about the meaning through Zappos.

---

#### Summary

But soon our staff count exceeded 25, and we made the mistake of hiring people who joined us for reasons different from the early members. It was good that they were smart and ambitious. However, it wasn't good that many were focused on earning lots of money or filling up their resumes. (...) It's akin to Chinese water torture that slowly kills a person. The single daily drop or one poorly chosen employee was bearable and not a big issue. But such things accumulate and eventually become torture.

One of the most fun things about poker is learning the restraint to distinguish between 'right decision' and 'the outcome of a hand.' Many people confuse these two. When they win, they think they bet correctly, and if they lose, they think they bet wrongly.

One of the most important decisions entrepreneurs or CEOs must make in business is the choice of industry. If the industry is inappropriate or the market too small, no matter how well-managed the business is, it won't matter.

Before Las Vegas, in hindsight, we had advantages that were obvious but not realized at the time. In Las Vegas, there were no acquaintances for Zappos staff members, which meant they had no choice but to socialize outside of work. It was an interesting time. We were all starting a new chapter in life and forming new social relationships. We worked and played together, and except for sleeping, we spent almost all the time together.

In San Francisco, we often said that culture is important for a company. We wanted to avoid repeating the cultural oversight mistakes we made during the LinkExchange era.

In Las Vegas, with no one else to rely on, company culture emerged as a priority over customer service. We believed that establishing the right culture would naturally make Zappos a company characterized by the best customer service.

To strongly maintain our culture, we strove to hire people who enjoyed socializing outside of work. We were right. Many great ideas emerged when we drank together at local bars.

Looking back, a major reason we could meet our goals early was the decision to invest time, funds, and resources into three key areas: customer service (the top contributor to our brand recognition and word of mouth), corporate culture (the top contributor to establishing our core values), and employee training and development (which led to the creation of the 'pipeline team').

Even now, we believe that BCP, namely Zappos' Brand, Culture, and Pipeline, are our long-term competitive advantages.

For several years, the greatest driving force behind Zappos’ growth was repeat customers and their referrals. Our philosophy was to invest money in customer service and satisfaction instead of paid advertising, so customers would market on our behalf through word of mouth.

Zappos does not track the call duration of support staff for evaluation purposes (the longest customer service call in Zappos’ history was six hours!) and doesn't try to upsell other products. We just want staff to give their best for every customer. We don't use scripts because we believe staff will respond based on their best judgment. We want staff to express their personality freely during calls, thereby forming Personal Emotional Connections (referred to internally as PEC) with customers.

Revenue from phone orders is actually only about 5%, and in most cases, doesn't lead to sales. However, on average, customers contact us by phone at least once in their lifetime. Hence, we strive to seize that opportunity to create unforgettable memories for them.

We have formally defined Zappos culture with the following ten core values: 1. Deliver 'wow' through service, 2. Embrace and drive change, 3. Create fun and a little weirdness, 4. Be adventurous, creative, and open-minded, 5. Pursue growth and learning, 6. Build open and honest relationships with communication, 7. Build a positive team and family spirit, 8. Do more with less, 9. Be passionate and determined, 10. Be humble.

The hardest part of building core values is pledging to embody the stated values. As mentioned in the blog post "Your Culture is Your Brand," it’s a serious issue that many companies’ proclaimed 'core values or internal guidelines' sound overly exalted or like press releases from the marketing department. In such cases, these become empty words learned on the first day of orientation and forgotten thereafter, remaining as meaningless plaques hanging in the lobby.

Sample interview questions from Zappos
Candidates are willing to think and act outside the box.
• "Give an example of when you thought and acted outside the box at a previous job."
"What's the best mistake you've made at work, and why?"
• "Talk about a time when you identified a problem outside your responsibility and took the initiative to solve it. What was the problem, and how did you solve it?"

Candidates possess above-average originality.
• "Are you more or less creative than the average person? Provide examples."
• "On your first day at Zappos, if your job is to make the interview and hiring process more fun, what would you do during those eight hours?"

Talking with someone who uses short, easy words is more fun. They just say "Wanna eat?" - Winnie the Pooh

Everyone has their own Everest to climb. We came into this world to climb that mountain. - Hugh MacLeod

If you have more than three priorities, you have no priorities. - Jim Collins

If you're talking and they're not listening, just be patient. Maybe there’s something stuck in their ear. - Winnie the Pooh

A person walking with purpose will run into destiny. - Bertice Berry