---
date: 2017-10-21
description: Reading 'Yoo Si-min's Lecture on Writing'
keywords: Yoo Si-min, Lecture on Writing, Writing
tags:
  - "#Vanity"
  - "#Writing"
  - "#Emotion"
  - "#Self-Development"
  - "#Argumentation"
templateKey: post
title: Vanity Creates Obscure Writing
---

> There are many emotions to be particularly wary of in life, and vanity is one of them. Vanity is a very vicious emotion. A person ensnared by vanity deceives themselves and others, pouring their time and passion into meaningless endeavors. In writing, the vanity that writers often fall prey to is the desire to flaunt knowledge and expertise. When consumed by this desire, they end up writing obscure texts.

## Summary

- 19) First, distinguish between a confession of taste and an assertion. Second, all assertions must be supported by argumentation. Third, stay focused on the theme from start to finish. By following these three rules, you can achieve a relatively high level of writing.

- 37) When writing, focus on the topic. Do not veer off track or introduce unrelated issues or information. Never forget why you started writing in the first place and the story you originally intended to tell; push your logic through in a straight line from beginning to end.

- 53) The purpose of writing, regardless of the genre, is to express the emotions or thoughts within oneself and connect with others.

- 74) First, the topic must be clear about what story is being told. Second, the essential facts and important information needed to address the topic must be included. Third, the relationships between these facts and information should be clearly demonstrated. Fourth, the theme, information, and logic should be expressed with appropriate vocabulary and sentences.

- 131) By conveying one thought per sentence, you naturally create short sentences.

- 168) Poor writing is similar, but great writing has its own unique reasons.

- 170) How can you identify poorly written texts? There is a simple and easy method: read the text aloud.

- 237) There are three main types of unnecessary elements in a sentence. The first is conjunctions, the second is modifiers and adverbs, and the third is sentence components that consist of multiple words but serve a similar role to modifiers or adverbs.

- 250) There are many emotions to be particularly wary of in life, and vanity is one of them. Vanity is a very vicious emotion. A person ensnared by vanity deceives themselves and others, pouring their time and passion into meaningless endeavors. In writing, the vanity that writers often fall prey to is the desire to flaunt knowledge and expertise. When consumed by this desire, they end up writing obscure texts.