---
date: 2024-09-18 20:38:00+00:00
description: Reading Benjamin Graham's "The Intelligent Investor"
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#TheIntelligentInvestor'
- '#BenjaminGraham'
- '#ValueInvesting'
- '#StockInvestment'
- '#InvestmentStrategy'
templateKey: post
title: The Intelligent Investor
---

Benjamin Graham, known as the father of value investing and Warren Buffett’s mentor.

Most of my assets are in stocks. It's been over 10 years since I started making money, and the amount isn't insignificant. I've been in the stock market for about five years and have experienced various failures. Usually, I've incurred losses by liquidating stocks I was holding because I urgently needed money. Or I bought stocks without much thought. I have significant concerns about asset allocation. Reflecting on my failures led me to seek books naturally. From the introduction, the author emphasizes that temperament is more important than knowledge in investing. Temperament refers to having the right perception and attitude. You should be able to set principles, adhere to them, and evaluate yourself.

To survive in the stock market, you must withstand volatility. This leads to the topic of how to manage your investment portfolio. The book suggests maintaining a balance between bonds and stocks, ideally between a 1:3 and 3:1 ratio. That means keeping at least 25% of your holdings in bonds (relatively safe assets). Even if I count my savings as bonds, their portion wouldn't be 5%. This book greatly helped me in balancing these aspects.

The book is quite detailed and practical. It advises against over-investing in a single industry and suggests diversifying across about 10 to 30 companies. I found the specific numbers like 10 or 30 quite intriguing. The example of evaluating companies based on the 10-year EPS growth rate was also very practical. It continues to explain if a specific company’s PER of 40 is appropriate, viewing the company’s value as "current earnings×8.5 + 2×expected annual growth rate." It logically explains how to calculate the margin of safety and why holding stocks in several companies increases the chance of profit.

I could identify several points that directly oppose my previous methods and intuitions. I've inherently had the tendency to aim for 'jackpot' stocks. Naturally, I was interested in unknown small-cap stocks rather than blue chips. In the book, the author suggests avoiding such small-cap stocks because, even if their performance improves, they don't attract market interest due to supply and demand issues; hence, it's better to find quality companies.

Clichés became more apparent. I've heard multiple times that it's impossible to time stock buying and selling perfectly, but it didn't resonate much before. However, this time, it was intriguing. It's about handling situations by assessing whether something is cheap or expensive, not predicting "when" it will happen. It’s obvious but painful to realize.

Had I read this book five years ago, I might have found it boring. But since investing is a critical topic in my life now, I read it differently. With some experience and familiarity, I understand more now. I need to read this book at least once a year to recalibrate my thoughts on investing. Although I wish for huge returns that exceed the market, it made me reflect on whether I'm putting in the effort. Some aspects still clash with my views.

I want to keep reading it again and again. As I gain more experience and time passes, I hope this book will resonate with me on a deeper level.