---
date: 2016-11-26
description: Seojin Geun, after reading 'The Thinking Wolf Tasuke'
image: /img/default.jpeg
keywords: Tasuke, The Thinking Wolf Tasuke, Seojin Geun
tags:
- '#PhenomenonAndCause'
- '#BooksForOfficeWorkers'
- '#StructuredThinking'
- '#CritiqueOfAuthority'
- '#ChangeInThinking'
templateKey: post
title: Find the Cause, Not the Phenomenon
---

My first job was filled with people who were former consultants from prestigious firms. They were all professional. They seemed to think deeply, searching for causes rather than just identifying phenomena. It was during this time that I found this book in a corner of the office. I enjoyed reading it back then. It discusses universal stories that office workers encounter, such as cause and effect and structuring. For someone like me, who was going with the flow of consciousness, this book provided a few tips on how to think structurally.

-----
## Summary

- The stories in this book are by no means truths. They are merely thoughts that I have organized based on what I have worked on, experienced, felt, and studied in the field. Therefore, I hope this book is read merely as an opinion.
- " (...summary) 'Do not blindly follow stories of famous experts or world-renowned authorities. They too can be wrong, just like you and me.' The team leader said he likes Einstein's quote that 'unquestioning respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth.'"
- In short, stereotypes are not mines to avoid but rather treasure islands for new ideas. You tend to have fewer opportunities for new ideas if you only examine, for example, 'why English lacks honorifics.' However, by doubting, dismantling, and breaking apart the belief that this is taken for granted, you can engage in the new imagination that 'English might actually have only honorifics.'
- "Team leader Tasuke wanted to talk about ways of thinking. People well know that depending on the angle, a cup can appear as a circle or a trapezoid, yet when handling actual information, they often forget that fact. At that time, team leader Tasuke also said, 'Every object and event before us, and every phenomenon among them, does not have one-dimensional aspects. They are all three-dimensional. You can only see what is three-dimensional when viewed in three dimensions. This meeting is no different. We are only handling one dimension of the phenomenon right now. Just because it appears trapezoidal to us does not mean we are thinking about the parts shaped like a circle.'"
- However, it is difficult to deny that the habit of hastily defining and concluding new information with existing knowledge can preemptively block the many possibilities that the new information may hold. Therefore, when encountering new information, it is best not to rush to define and conclude it. The quicker the conclusion, the more gaps there are likely to be. It is like taking a photo the moment an object appears and storing it in a folder, only for it to rarely be taken out again. One-dimensional information is used one-dimensionally when it is taken out for future use. It should be noted that insight is a matter of angle, not speed. In conclusion, when handling information, it is advisable to have a habit of painstakingly observing. Because it is during the ongoing search for potential new possibilities behind visible information that the angle of thought opens up.
- The most important task in gaining insights about solutions is accurately identifying 'what the problem is.' Finding a suitable solution while misidentifying the problem to solve is akin to looking for a cloud in a well. It sounds so obvious, yet if you examine the actual work processes, identifying the problem isn't as straightforward as it seems. Ironically, this confusion often arises because the 'problem' appears too obvious. Particularly common is mistaking the 'negative situation' itself as the problem. This is likely because the more pronounced the negative aspect, the easier it is perceived as something that needs addressing. However, strictly speaking, a negative situation cannot be the object of resolution. It is not the negative situation that is solved, but rather, it is alleviated or improved as a consequence of solving the 'problem.' Although a clear causal relationship exists between the problem and the negative situation, pinpointing 'what the problem is' is not so simple. This is often due to the complex intertwining of factors influencing the negative situation.
- The fundamental principle of Tasuke's way of thinking is simple. 'The fight against anything that blocks deeper thought' is the path to insight.
- "Friendships are like mountain paths, and if not frequented, they become overgrown and disappear. It seems I've neglected the overgrown path with the excuse of being busy. (...)"
- "Of course, dismissing surveys as unable to find people's desires is an underestimation. In some cases, surveys have provided crucial leads in solving problems. Surveys should address possibilities. Their value shines only in the realm of possibilities, not fixed facts. In any case, when reliance goes beyond a reference level to absolute belief, surveys also become 'one-dimensional.' Humanity is far too complex and delicate for such one-dimensional treatment.
- "Mr. Kim, don't try to analyze people. People can't be analyzed, nor is there any point in doing so. Only aliens analyzing humans or wolves like me would do that. For you as a human, people shouldn't be subjects of analysis. They should be subjects of understanding. Analysis inherently presumes a difference from its subject. Conversely, understanding presumes alignment. The human mind cannot be grasped with clumsy analysis. It is only through understanding that it can be comprehended."