---
date: 2022-10-29 14:34:04.921000+00:00
description: After reading Ben Horowitz's 'The Hard Thing About Hard Things'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#RealisticManagement'
- '#ManagementBooks'
- '#TalentAcquisition'
- '#OrganizationalManagement'
- '#Entrepreneurship'
templateKey: post
title: Reality is Harsh
---

Management books provide help and comfort in corporate life. The book was packed with experiences, making it realistic and concrete.

> In business, the hardest thing is not setting big and bold goals. It's about laying off employees when those goals fail. It's not about recruiting great talent, but dealing with their entitlements and increasing demands. It's not about creating an organizational chart, but facilitating communication within the organization. It's not about having grand dreams, but waking up in a cold sweat and finding solutions when those dreams turn into nightmares.

---

## Reflections
- As a result, I moved among groups of children with different worldviews, leading a multiplexed social life. During this, I couldn't help but be amazed at how the meaning of all significant events in the world changed according to perspective. By viewing the world through such different prisms, I developed the ability to distinguish between perception and reality. And this ability helped me immensely later as an entrepreneur and CEO. Especially in urgent situations where certain 'facts' seem to dictate the outcome, I would often find alternative narratives and explanations from fundamentally different perspectives to establish my viewpoint.
- There should never be sloppy, half-hearted work.
- The market wasn't ‘efficient’ in uncovering the truth. It was only efficient in arriving at some sort of conclusion, often leading to incorrect conclusions.
- Never forget to ask this question at some point: “What are we not doing right now?”
- When recruiting executives, as Colin Powell says, choose "people with many strengths rather than few weaknesses."
- Aside from economic reasons, there were two main reasons people left. ■ They hated their boss. Employees generally despised the lack of clear direction, leadership, career development opportunities, and feedback. ■ They felt there was no learning or growth. Employees felt the company was not investing resources in their ability to learn new skills. A great training program can solve both problems. Saying you're too busy to train employees is like saying you're too hungry to eat. Moreover, creating a basic training program isn't that difficult.
- “If you don’t really know what you want, the likelihood of achieving it becomes extremely low.”
- On a macro level, companies are most successful when their senior executives optimize themselves for the company's success (considered global optimization), rather than their personal success (considered local optimization). No matter how excellently a CEO designs a personal incentive program, it can never be perfect.
- The first problem a CEO faces is learning how to be a CEO only after becoming one.
- My partners and I closely observe whether entrepreneurs exhibit two important traits: excellence and courage. Reflecting on my time as a CEO, it was courage, much more than intelligence, that was needed when making the most important decisions. Often, the correct decision is clear, but under various pressures, wrong decisions are made.
- When giving feedback, start with praise (the first piece of bread) to open their mind, then deliver the uncomfortable message (unpleasant content), and finish by reminding them of how much you value their strengths (the second piece of bread).