---
date: 2024-11-13 23:17:00+00:00
description: Reflections on William Hazlitt's 'On the Pleasure of Hating'
image: /img/default.jpeg
tags:
- '#hatred'
- '#positivity'
- '#negativeemotions'
- '#happiness'
- '#gratitude'
templateKey: post
title: Honesty in Hatred
---

> For it takes more mental effort to sustain pleasure than pain. We turn our attention from what we loved to what we hate after vainly wasting a little time!

> Humans quickly tire of pure goodness and seek change and vitality. Pain is bitter yet sweet, and this taste is not easily exhausted. Love, even with slight indulgence, turns to indifference or disgust. But hatred never dies.

Much has been written about positivity. Unfortunately, our hearts are often filled with negative emotions. This book directly confronts unhappiness and hatred. After thoroughly reading about hatred, I find myself wanting to live more happily and gratefully.

---

## Summary
- We learn to control our will so that malice does not manifest in actions, enclosing it within a spirit of benevolence. Then it takes a long time to subdue even the feelings and imaginations of malice to a gentle state. While we may give up outward expressions, such as savage violence, we cannot part with the essence or principle of hostility.
- Without constantly stirring with squeaky interests and unruly passions, life would become stagnant. The whiter the streak in our fate, the more it stands out against the darkness (or becomes well displayed). A rainbow is clearer with clouds as a backdrop. Is it pride, envy, the effect of contrast, weakness, or malice? Humans have a yearning for evil, and even when committed, they gain a twisted pleasure, thinking themselves fortunate. These misdeeds are a constant source of satisfaction.
- Humans quickly tire of pure goodness and crave change and vitality. Pain is bitter yet sweet, and this taste does not wear out. Love, with even a little indulgence, turns to indifference or disgust. Only hatred never dies.
- Still, our stomachs are always filled with excess bile, and we need something to spill it out upon. How reluctant were we to give up belief in ghosts and witches! People needed ghosts to be terrified and witches because they loved to persecute. What we long for is quantity, not quality, of excitement. We cannot bear indifference and boredom.
- The world changes. Old feelings cannot be revived. Avoid old friends, as being with them is uncomfortable. They remind us of our flaws and force us to pretend to be affectionate. Yet, we only embarrass ourselves and fail to deceive our former companions. Old friendships, served repeatedly, resemble cold and unpleasant dishes that the stomach does not tolerate well. It is unclear whether frequent, casual meetings breed contempt or if sporadic encounters make us appear different. Some are too smart and others too...