---
date: 2020-11-15 09:43:11.871000+00:00
description: Reading Jhumpa Lahiri's 'This Small Book is Always Bigger Than Me'
image: /img/italy.jpg
tags:
- '#language'
- '#Italian'
- '#English'
- '#Bengali'
- '#cultureclash'
templateKey: post
title: Swimming Around the Lake
---

People think in language. Language gives people another personality, another life.

The protagonist is a writer. She expresses and exists through her writing. She became famous for her works written in English. One day, she suddenly becomes fascinated by Italian. She had never lived in Italy and had no Italian friends. She starts living in Italy and begins writing in Italian.

As she becomes accustomed to her challenging life in Italian, English starts to feel unfamiliar. When she writes first in Italian and then translates to English, it feels alien. This isn't the first time she's made language feel unfamiliar. She was born into a family that spoke Bengali as their mother tongue and grew up in an English-speaking culture. Her relatives assume she only understands English. Conversely, in the United States, people are often surprised at how fluently she uses English. She feels a lack of belonging to either English or Bengali. However, Italian was a bit different. She had affection for it. When she returned to the United States, she regretted the time she had spent striving to write solely in Italian every day.

It's not surprising that she, wandering between Bengali and English, suddenly clings to Italian. There's nothing as dangerous as unstable stability. Stability achieved through effort in a given environment carries a subtle sense of regret and thirst. Swimming around the lake. So when she grew tired of the countless days she couldn't cross the lake for fear of deep waters, she swam across it.