---
date: 2016-06-12
description: Reflections on reading Chang Ha-Joon's 'Economics: The User's Guide'
tags:
- '#hipsterEconomist'
- '#economics'
- '#neoliberalism'
- '#economicInequality'
- '#basicIncome'
templateKey: post
title: Hipster Economist
---
The book discusses how various economic theories have operated in reality, critiquing the limitations and hidden sides of mainstream economics. The author emphasizes that economics is not just a simple discipline but a diversified political arena closely connected to our lives.

As I read the book, I realized that I, too, was understanding economics only within the framework of rationality. I had naturally accepted the neoliberal perspective and believed that economic status based on ability was a given. However, Chang Ha-Joon’s criticisms made me uncomfortable. He points out the limitations of neoliberalism such as market failures, worsening inequality, short-term profit pursuits, and the exclusion of political/social contexts. Similarly, he highlights the blind spots of various mainstream economic schools, explaining that many things we considered obvious are actually shaped by political and historical contexts.

I lived believing neoliberalism was everything for the economy, simply because I have lived only in the neoliberal era. It was recently reported that Switzerland held a referendum on basic income. Although the basic income system was not adopted, the fact that the discussion led to a national vote suggests the possibility of a shift in economic paradigms. This book made me rethink my mindset, which was confined to the paradigm of mainstream economics.

Questions about what is just and what is right hold significant meaning in a capitalist society. This book made me uncomfortable, but at the same time, it made me embrace the diversity of economic thought. Absolute poverty has significantly reduced, yet new forms of economic crises and inequality threaten our society. Through this book, I deeply contemplated how far my way of thinking can expand and whether empathy is genuine or merely a new name for disguising interests.